@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap8.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:56 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Gophers

@menu
* Gophers::				Tunneling through the Net.
* Burrowing Deeper::			And what you find there.
* Gopher Commands::			To direct your Gopher.
* Some Interesting Gophers::		A Gopher Hole collection.
* Wide-Area Information Servers::	WAISs.
* World-Wide Web::			HyperText across the World.
* Clients::				What it needs to get things run.
* When Things Go Wrong VI::		The final part of the series.
* Gophers FYI::				Suggested further reading.
@end menu


@c --------
@node Gophers
@section Gophers

Even with tools like Hytelnet and archie, telnet and ftp can still
be frustrating.  There are all those telnet and ftp addresses to
remember.  Telnet services often have their own unique commands.  And,
oh, those weird directory and file names!

But now that the Net has become a rich repository of information,
people are developing ways to make it far easier to find and retrieve 
information and files. Gophers and Wide-Area Information Servers (WAISs) 
are two services that could ultimately make the Internet as easy to 
navigate as commercial networks such as CompuServe or Prodigy.

Both gophers and WAISs essentially take a request for information 
and then scan the Net for it, so you don't have to.  Both also work 
through menus -- instead of typing in some long sequence of characters, 
you just move a cursor to your choice and hit enter.  Gophers even 
let you select files and programs from ftp sites this way. 

Let's first look at gophers (named for the official mascot of the 
University of Minnesota, where the system was developed).
@cindex Gopher

Many public-access sites now have gophers online.  To use one, type

@example
gopher
@end example

at the command prompt and hit enter.  If you know your site does not have 
a gopher, or if nothing happens when you type that, telnet to

@example
consultant.micro.umn.edu
@end example

At the log-in prompt, type

@example
gopher
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll be asked what type of terminal emulation you're
using, after which you'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
Internet Gopher Information Client v1.03

Root gopher server: gopher.micro.umn.edu

-->  1.  Information About Gopher/
     2.  Computer Information/
     3.  Discussion Groups/
     4.  Fun & Games/
     5.  Internet file server (ftp) sites/
     6.  Libraries/
     7.  News/
     8.  Other Gopher and Information Servers/
     9.  Phone Books/
     10. Search lots of places at the U of M  <?>
     11. University of Minnesota Campus Information/

Press ? for Help, q to Quit, u to go up a menu      Page: 1/1
@end cartouche
@end example

Assuming you're using VT100 or some other VT emulation, you'll be 
able to move among the choices with your up and down arrow keys.  When 
you have your cursor on an entry that looks interesting, just hit enter, 
and you'll either get a new menu of choices, a database entry form, or a 
text file, depending on what the menu entry is linked to (more on how to 
tell which you'll get in a moment).

Gophers are great for exploring the resources of the Net.  Just keep 
making choices to see what pops up.  Play with it; see where it takes 
you.  Some choices will be documents.  When you read one of these and 
either come to the end or hit a lower-case @samp{q} to quit reading it, you'll 
be given the choice of saving a copy to your home directory or e-mailing 
it to yourself.  Other choices are simple databases that let you enter a 
word to look for in a particular database.  To get back to where you 
started on a gopher, hit your @samp{u} key at a menu prompt, which will move you 
back ``up'' through the gopher menu structure (much like ``cd ..'' in ftp).

Notice that one of your choices above is ``Internet file server (ftp) 
sites.''  Choose this, and you'll be connected to a modified archie 
program -- an archie with a difference.  When you search for a file 
through a gopher archie, you'll get a menu of sites that have the file 
you're looking for, just as with the old archie.  Only now, instead of 
having to write down or remember an ftp address and directory, all you 
have to do is position the cursor next to one of the numbers in the menu 
and hit enter.  You'll be connected to the ftp site, from which you can 
then choose the file you want.  This time, move the cursor to the file 
you want and hit a lower-case @samp{s}.  You'll be asked for a name in your home 
directory to use for the file, after which the file will be copied to 
your home system.  Unfortunately, this file-transfer process does not yet 
work with all public-access sites for computer programs and compressed 
files.  If it doesn't work with yours, you'll have to get the file the 
old-fashioned way, via anonymous ftp. 

In addition to ftp sites, there are hundreds of databases and 
libraries around the world accessible through gophers.  There is not yet
a common gopher interface for library catalogs, so be prepared to follow
the online directions more closely when you use gopher to connect to
one.

Gopher menu entries that end in a @samp{/} are gateways to another menu of 
options.  Entries that end in a period are text, graphics or program 
files, which you can retrieve to your home directory (or e-mail to 
yourself or to somebody else).  A line that ends in @samp{<?>} or
@samp{<CSO>} 
represents a request you can make to a database for information.  The 
difference is that @samp{<?>} entries call up one-line interfaces in which you 
can search for a keyword or words, while @samp{<CSO>} brings up an electronic 
form with several fields for you to fill out (you might see this in 
online ``White Pages'' directories at colleges).

Gophers actually let you perform some relatively sophisticated 
Boolean searches.  For example, if you want to search only for files that 
contain the words ``MS-DOS'' and ``Macintosh,'' you'd type

@example 
ms-dos and macintosh
@end example 

(gophers are not case-sensitive) in the keyword field.  Alternately, if 
you want to get a list of files that mention either ``MS-DOS'' or 
``Macintosh,'' you'd type

@example
ms-dos or macintosh
@end example


@c --------
@node Burrowing Deeper
@section Burrowing Deeper
As fascinating as it can be to explore ``gopherspace,'' you might one 
day want to quickly retrieve some information or a file.  Or you might 
grow tired of calling up endless menus to get to the one you want. 
Fortunately,  there are ways to make even gophers easier to use. 

One is with archie's friend, veronica (it allegedly is an acronym, 
but don't believe that for a second), who does for gopherspace what 
archie does for ftp sites. 
@cindex Veronica

In most gophers, you'll find veronica by selecting ``Other gopher and 
information services'' at the main menu and then ``Searching through 
gopherspace using veronica.''  Select this and you'll get something like 
this: 

@example
@cartouche
              Internet Gopher Information Client v1.1

-->  1.  Search titles in Gopherspace using veronica.
     2.  FAQ:  Frequently-Asked Questions about veronica  (1993/08/23).
     3.  How to compose  veronica queries (NEW June 24) READ ME!!.
     4.  Search Gopher Directory Titles at PSINet <?>
     5.  Search Gopher Directory Titles at SUNET <?>
     6.  Search Gopher Directory Titles at U. of Manitoba <?>
     7.  Search Gopher Directory Titles at University of Cologne <?>
     8.  Search gopherspace at PSINet <?>
     9.  Search gopherspace at SUNET <?>
     10. Search gopherspace at U. of Manitoba <?>
     11. Search gopherspace at University of Cologne <?>

Press ? for Help, q to Quit, u to go up a menu                Page: 1/1
@end cartouche
@end example

A few choices there!  First, the difference between searching 
directory titles and just plain ol' gopherspace.  If you already know the 
sort of directory you're looking for (say a directory containing MS-DOS 
programs), do a directory-title search.  But if you're not sure what kind 
of directory your information might be in, then do a general 
gopherspace search. In general, it doesn't matter which of the particular 
veronicas you use -- they should all be able to produce the same results.  
The reason there is more than one is because the Internet has become so 
popular that only one veronica (or one gopher or one of almost anything) 
would quickly be overwhelmed by all the information requests from around 
the world.  

You can use veronica to search for almost anything.  Want to find 
museums that might have online displays from their exhibits?  Try 
searching for ``museum.''  Looking for a copy of the Declaration of 
Independence?  Try ``declaration.'' 

In many cases, your search will bring up a new gopher menu of 
choices to try.

Say you want to impress those guests coming over for dinner on 
Friday by cooking cherries flambe. If you were to call up veronica and 
type in ``flambe'' after calling up veronica, you would soon get a menu 
listing several flambe recipes, including one called ``dessert flambe.''  
Put your cursor on that line of the menu and hit enter, and you'll find 
it's a menu for cherries flambe.  Then hit your @samp{q} key to quit, and gopher 
will ask you if you want to save the file in your home directory on your 
public-access site or whether you want to e-mail it somewhere. 

As you can see, you can use veronica as an alternative to archie, 
which, because of the Internet's growing popularity, seems to take longer 
and longer to work.

In addition to archie and veronica, we now also have jugheads (no 
bettys yet, though).  These work the same as veronicas, but their 
searches are limited to the specific gopher systems on which they reside.
@cindex Jughead

If there are particular gopher resources you use frequently, there 
are a couple of ways to get to them even more directly.

One is to use gopher in a manner similar to the way you can use 
telnet. If you know a particular gopher's Internet address (often the 
same as its telnet or ftp address), you can connect to it directly, 
rather than going through menus.  For example, say you want to use the 
gopher at @host{info.umd.edu}.  If your public-access site has a gopher system 
installed, type this 

@example
gopher info.umd.edu
@end example
and you'll be connected.

But even that can get tedious if there are several gophers you use 
frequently. That's where bookmarks come in.  Gophers let you create a 
list of your favorite gopher sites and even database queries.  Then, 
instead of digging ever deeper into the gopher directory structure, you 
just call up your bookmark list and select the service you want.

To create a bookmark for a particular gopher site, first call up 
gopher.  Then go through all the gopher menus until you get to the menu 
you want.  Type a capital @samp{A}. You'll be given a suggested name for the 
bookmark enty, which you can change if you want by backspacing over the 
suggestion and typing in your own.  When done, hit enter.  Now, whenever 
you're in gopherspace and want to zip back to that particular gopher 
service, just hit your @samp{V} key (upper- or lower-case; in this instance, 
gopher doesn't care) anywhere within gopher.  This will bring up a list 
of your bookmarks. Move to the one you want and hit enter, and you'll be 
connected.

Using a capital @samp{A} is also good for saving particular database or 
veronica queries that you use frequently (for example, searching for 
news stories on a particular topic if your public-access site maintains 
an indexed archive of wire-service news).

Instead of a capital @samp{A}, you can also hit a lower-case @samp{a}.  This will 
bring you to the particular line within a menu, rather than show you the 
entire menu.
@cindex Gopher, bookmark

If you ever want to delete a bookmark, hit @samp{V} within gopher, select 
the item you want to get rid of, and then hit your @samp{D} key.
One more hint:
If you want to find the address of a particular gopher service, hit 
your @samp{=} key after you've highlighted its entry in a gopher menu.  You'll 
get back a couple of lines, most of which will be technicalese of no 
immediate value to most folks, but some of which will consist of the 
site's address.

@ignore
@c --------
@node Veronica
@section Veronica

Veronica is a ``Very Easy Rodent-Oriented Net-wide Index to Computerized
Archives.''  Veronica's name is a play on the concepts of both gopher and
archie.  (Remember the comic book couple Archie and Veronica?  Veronica
does for gopher what archie does for anonymous FTP.)  Veronica searches
through hundreds of gopher holes looking for anything that matches a
keyword supplied by the user, and assembles a list of gopher servers that
contain items of interest.  Note:  veronica checks @emph{titles} of gopher
items only, not their contents.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node Gopher Commands
@section Gopher Commands
@table @code

@item a
Add a line in a gopher menu to your bookmark list.
 
@item A
Add an entire gopher menu or a database query to your bookmark 
list. 
 
@item d
Delete an entry from your bookmark list (you have to hit @samp{v} 
first).

@item q
Quit, or exit, a gopher.  You'll be asked if you really want to.

@item Q
Quit, or exit, a gopher without being asked if you're sure.

@item s
Save a highlighted file to your home directory.

@item u
Move back up a gopher menu structure

@item v 
View your bookmark list.

@item =
Get information on the originating site of a gopher entry.

@item >
Move ahead one screen in a gopher menu.

@item <
Move back one screen in a gopher menu.
@end table


@c --------
@node Some Interesting Gophers
@section Some Interesting Gophers
There are now hundreds of gopher sites around the world.  What 
follows is a list of some of them.  Assuming your site has a gopher 
``client'' installed, you can reach them by typing 

@example
gopher sitename
@end example

at your command line. Can't find what you're looking for? Remember to use 
veronica to look up categories and topics! 

@c --------
@menu
* Gopher Agriculture::
* Gopher Animals::
* Gopher Architecture::
* Gopher Art::
* Gopher Astronomy::
* Gopher Census::
* Gopher Computers::
* Gopher Disability::
* Gopher Environment::
* Gopher Entomology::
* Gopher Geology::
* Gopher Government::
* Gopher Health::
* Gopher History::
* Gopher Internet::
* Gopher Israel::
* Gopher Japan::
* Gopher Music::
* Gopher Nature::
* Gopher Sports::
* Gopher Weather::
* More Gophers::
@end menu


@c --------
@node Gopher Agriculture
@subsection Agriculture
@host{cyfer.esusda.gov}
More agricultural statistics and
regulations than most people will
ever need.
 
@host{usda.mannlib.cornell.edu}
More than 140 different types of 
agricultural data, most in Lotus 1-2-3
spreadsheet format.


@c --------
@node Gopher Animals
@subsection Amimals
@host{saimiri.primate.wisc.edu}
Information on primates and animal-welfare 
laws.


@c --------
@node Gopher Architecture
@subsection Architecture
@host{libra.arch.umich.edu}
Maintains online exhibits of a variety of
architectural images.


@c --------
@node Gopher Art
@subsection Art
@host{marvel.loc.gov}
The Library of Congress maintains several
online ``galleries'' of exhibits on display
at the Library itself.  These pictures, in
GIF or JPEG image format, can be 
``delivered'' to your home directory, from 
which you can download. Some pictures are
@emph{HUGE}, so be careful what you get first. 
Exhibits include works of art from the
Vatican, copies of once secret Soviet 
government documents and pictures of 
artifacts related to Columbus's 1492 
voyage. At the main menu, select 2 and then
``Exhibits.''

@host{galaxy.ucr.edu}
The California Musuem of Art maintains its
own online gallery here.  At the main menu,
select ``Campus Events,'' then ``California
Museum of Photography,'' then ``Network 
Exhibitions.''


@c --------
@node Gopher Astronomy
@subsection Astronomy
@host{cast0.ast.cam.ac.uk}
A gopher devoted to astronomy, run by the
Institute of Astronomy and the Royal Greenwich
Observatory, Cambridge, England.


@c --------
@node Gopher Census
@subsection Census
@host{bigcat.missouri.edu}
You'll find detailed federal census data for
communities of more than 10,000 people, as well
as for states and counties here.  At the main
menu, select ``Reference and Information Center,''
then ``United States and Missouri Census
Information'' and ``United States Census.''


@c --------
@node Gopher Computers
@subsection Computers
@host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}
Dozens of directories with software for all sorts
of computers.  Most programs have to be 
``un-compressed'' before you can use them.

@host{sumex-aim.stanford.edu}
A similar type of system, with the emphasis on 
Macintosh programs and files.


@c --------
@node Gopher Disability
@subsection Disability
@host{val-dor.cc.buffalo.edu}
The Cornucopia of Disability Information carries
numerous information resources on disability issues
and links to other disability-related services.


@c --------
@node Gopher Environment
@subsection Environment
@host{ecosys.drdr.virginia.edu}
Copies of Environmental Protection Agency
factsheets on hundreds of chemicals; 
searchable by keyword.  Select ``Education''
and then ``Environmental fact sheets.''

@host{envirolink.org}
Dozens of documents and files related to 
environmental activism around the world.

@c --------
@node Gopher Entomology
@subsection Entomology
@host{spider.ento.csiro.au}
All about creepy-crawly things, both the good 
and the bad ones.


@c --------
@node Gopher Geology
@subsection Geology
@host{gopher.stolaf.edu}
Select ``Internet resources'' and then
``Weather and geography'' for information on
recent earthquakes.
 

@c --------
@node Gopher Government
@subsection Government
@host{mavel.loc.gov}
Run by the Library of Congress, this site
provides numerous informational resources,
including access to the Library's 
voluminous card catalog and all manner of
data about the U.S. Congress.

@host{gopher.lib.umich.edu}
Another source for a wide variety of 
government information, from Congressional
committee assignments to information on
NAFTA to economic statistics.
  
@host{ecix.doc.gov}
Information on conversion of military 
installations to private uses, run by the 
Department of Commerce. 

@host{sunsite.unc.edu}
Copies of the 1993 and 1994 U.S. federal 
budgets can be found by going into ``Sunsite
archives,'' then ``Politics,'' then ``Sunsite
political science archives.''

@host{wiretap.spies.com}
Various documents related to the government
and constitution of Canada can be found in the 
``Government docs'' area.

@host{darcms1.dartmouth.edu}
Look for government jobs in the ``Jobs'' menu.

@host{stis.nih.gov}
Go into the ``Other U.S. government gopher
servers'' area for access to numerous other
government gophers.


@c ---------
@node Gopher Health
@subsection Health
@host{odie.niaid.nih.gov}
National Institutes of Health database on 
AIDS. Includes information on the disease, 
treatments, summaries of related stories in 
daily newspapers. Look under ``AIDS related 
information.''

@host{helix.nih.gov}
The National Cancer Institute provides 
detailed factsheets on different cancers.  
Select ``Health and clinical information'' and
then ``Cancernet information.''

@host{nysernet.org}
Look for information on breast cancer in the
``Special Collections: Breast Cancer'' menu.

@host{welchlink.welch.jhu.edu}
This is Johns Hopkins University's medical 
gopher.


@c --------
@node Gopher History
@subsection History
See under Art (@pxref{Gopher Art}).


@c --------
@node Gopher Internet
@subsection Internet
@host{gopher.lib.umich.edu}
Home to several guides to Internet resources
in specific fields, for example, social 
sciences.  Select ``What's New & Featured
Resources'' and then ``Clearinghouse.''


@c --------
@node Gopher Israel
@subsection Israel
@host{jerusalem1.datasrv.co.il}
This Israeli system offers numerous documents
on Israel and Jewish life.



@c --------
@node Gopher Japan
@subsection Japan
@host{gopher.ncc.go.jp}
Look in the ``Japan information'' menu for 
documents related to Japanese life and culture.


@c --------
@node Gopher Music
@subsection Music
@host{mtv.com}
Run by MTV VJ Adam Curry, this site not
only has music news but Curry's daily
Cybersleaze celebrity report.
@cindex MTV


@c --------
@node Gopher Nature
@subsection Nature
@host{ucmp1.berkeley.edu}
The University of California at Berkeley's
Museum of Palentology runs several online
exhibits. You can obtain GIF images of a
variety of different plants and birds and
other animals in the ``Remote Nature''
area. An ``Origin of the Species'' menu lets
you read Darwin's work or search it by
key word.


@c --------
@node Gopher Sports
@subsection Sports
@host{culine.colorado.edu}
Look up schedules for teams in various professional
sports leagues here, under ``Professional Sports
Schedules.''


@c --------
@node Gopher Weather
@subsection Weather
@host{ashpool.micro.umn.edu}
Look up weather forecasts for major 
American and Canadian cities in the 
``Weather'' area.

@host{wx.atmos.uiuc.edu}
Look up weather forecasts for North America or
bone up on your weather facts.


@c --------
@node More Gophers 
@subsection More Gophers
Blake Gumprecht maintains a list of gopher and telnet sites related 
to, or run by, the government. He posts it every three weeks to the 
@news{news.answers} and @news{soc.answers} newsgroups on Usenet. It can also be 
obtained via anonymous ftp from @host{rtfm.mit.edu}, as 
@file{/pub/usenet/ news.answers/us-govt-net-pointers}. 
@cindex Gumprecht, Blake

Students at the University of Michigan's School of Information and 
Library Studies, recently compiled separate lists of Internet resources 
in 11 specific areas, from aeronautics to theater.  They can be obtained 
via gopher at @host{gopher.lib.umich.edu}, in the ``What's New and Featured 
Resources'' menu.


@c --------
@node Wide-Area Information Servers
@section Wide-Area Information Servers

Now you know there are hundreds of databases and library catalogs
you can search through.  But as you look, you begin to realize that each
seems to have its own unique method for searching.  If you connect to
several, this can become a pain.  Gophers reduce this problem somewhat.

Wide-area information servers promise another way to zero in on
information hidden on the Net. In a WAIS, the user sees only one
interface -- the program worries about how to access information on
dozens, even hundreds, of different databases.  You give a WAIS a
word and it scours the net looking for places where it's mentioned.  You
get a menu of documents, each ranked according to how relevant to your
search the WAIS thinks it is.

Like gophers, WAIS ``client'' programs can already be found on many
public-access Internet sites. If your system has a WAIS client, type 

@example
swais
@end example

at the command prompt and hit enter (the ``s'' stands for ``simple'').  If it 
doesn't, telnet to bbs.oit.unc.edu, which is run by the University of North
Carolina  At the ``login:'' prompt, type

@example
bbs
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll be asked to register and will then get a list of
``bulletins,'' which are various files explaining how the system works.
When done with those, hit your Q key and you'll get another menu.  Hit 4
for the ``simple WAIS client,'' and you'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
SWAIS                          Source Selection          Sources: 23#
Server                         Source                             Cost
001:   [           archie.au]  aarnet-resource-guide              Free
002:   [    archive.orst.edu]  aeronautics                        Free
003:   [nostromo.oes.orst.ed]  agricultural-market-news           Free
004:   [sun-wais.oit.unc.edu]  alt-sys-sun                        Free
005:   [    archive.orst.edu]  alt.drugs                          Free
006:   [    wais.oit.unc.edu]  alt.gopher                         Free
007:   [sun-wais.oit.unc.edu]  alt.sys.sun                        Free
008:   [    wais.oit.unc.edu]  alt.wais                           Free
009:   [    archive.orst.edu]  archie-orst.edu                    Free
010:   [           archie.au]  archie.au-amiga-readmes            Free
011:   [           archie.au]  archie.au-ls-lRt                   Free
012:   [           archie.au]  archie.au-mac-readmes              Free
013:   [           archie.au]  archie.au-pc-readmes               Free
014:   [ pc2.pc.maricopa.edu]  ascd-education                     Free
015:   [           archie.au]  au-directory-of-servers            Free
016:   [   cirm2.univ-mrs.fr]  bib-cirm                           Free
017:   [  cmns-sun.think.com]  bible                              Free
018:   [      zenon.inria.fr]  bibs-zenon-inria-fr                Free

Keywords:

<space> selects, w for keywords, arrows move, <return> searches, q quits, ?
@end cartouche
@end example

Each line represents a different database (the .au at the end of some of
them means they are in Australia; the .fr on the last line represents a
database in France).  And this is just the first page!  If you type a
capital K, you'll go to the next page (there are several pages).
Hitting a capital J will move you back a page.

The first thing you want to do is tell the WAIS program which
databases you want searched.  To select a database, move the cursor bar
over the line you want (using your down and up arrow keys) and hit your
space bar.  An asterisk will appear next to the line number.  Repeat this
until you've selected all of the databases you want searched.  Then hit
your W key, after which you'll be prompted for the key words you're
looking for.  You can type in an entire line of these words -- separate
each with a space, not a comma.

Hit return, and the search begins.

Let's say you're utterly fascinated with wheat.  So you might select
agricultural-market-news to find its current world price.  But you also
want to see if it has any religious implications, so you choose the
Bible and the Book of Mormon.  What do you do with the stuff?  Select
recipes and usenet-cookbook. Are there any recent Supreme Court
decisions involving the plant? Chose supreme-court.  How about synonyms?
Try roget-thesaurus and just plain thesaurus.

Now hit w and type in wheat.  Hit enter, and the WAIS program begins
its search.  As it looks, it tells you whether any of the databases are
offline, and if so, when they might be ready for a search.  In about a
minute, the program tells you how many hits it's found.  Then you get a new
menu, that looks something like this:

@example
@cartouche
Keywords:

#    Score  SourceTitleLines
001: [1000] (roget-thesaurus) #465. [results of comparison. 1] Di 19
002: [1000] (roget-thesaurus) #609. Choice. -- N. choice, option; 36
003: [1000] (roget-thesaurus) #465. [results of comparison. 1] Di 19
004: [1000] (roget-thesaurus) #609. Choice. -- N. choice, option; 36
005: [1000] (recipes)  aem@@mthvax Re: MONTHLY: Rec.Food.Recipes 425
006: [1000] ( Book_of_Mormon) Mosiah 9:96
007: [1000] ( Book_of_Mormon) 3 Nephi 18:185
008: [1000] (agricultural-ma) Re: JO GR115, WEEKLY GRAIN82
009: [ 822] (agricultural-ma) Re: WA CB351 PROSPECTIVE PLANTINGS 552
010: [ 800] (        recipes) kms@@apss.a Re: REQUEST: Wheat-free, Suga 35
011: [ 750] (agricultural-ma) Re: WA CB101 CROP PRODUCTION258
012: [ 643] (agricultural-ma) Re: SJ GR850 DAILY NAT GRN SUM72
013: [ 400] (        recipes) pat@@jaamer Re: VEGAN: Honey Granola63
014: [ 400] (        recipes) jrtrint@@pa Re: OVO-LACTO: Sourdough/Trit 142
@end cartouche
@end example

Each of these represents an article or citing that contains the word wheat,
or some related word.  Move the cursor bar (with the down and up arrow
keys) to the one you want to see, hit enter, and it will begin to appear
on your screen.  The ``score'' is a WAIS attempt to gauge how closely the
citing matches your request.  Doesn't look like the Supreme Court has had
anything to say about the plant of late!

Now think of how much time you would have spent logging onto various
databases just to find these relatively trivial examples.


@c --------
@node World-Wide Web
@section World-Wide Web

Developed by researchers at CERN, the European Particle Physics
Laboratory in Geneva, the World-Wide Web is somewhat similar to a WAIS.  
But it's designed on a system known as hypertext.  Words in one document
are ``linked'' to other documents.  It's sort of like sitting with an
encyclopedia -- you're reading an article, see a reference that 
intrigues you and so flip the pages to look up that reference.

To take a walk on The Web try the WWW's (or W3 in the project's own jargon),
default telnet site:

@example
info.cern.ch
@end example

No log in is needed.  When you connect, you'll see something like:

@example
@cartouche
                                                         Overview of the Web
                       GENERAL OVERVIEW
                                       
There is no "top" to the World-Wide Web. You can look at it from many points
of view. If you have no other bias, here are some places to start:
   
by Subject[1]          A classification by subject of interest. Incomplete
                       but easiest to use.
                         
by Type[2]             Looking by type of service (access protocol, etc) may
                       allow to find things if you know what you are looking
                       for.
                         
About WWW[3]           About the World-Wide Web global information sharing
                       project
                         
Starting somewhere else

To use a different default page, perhaps one representing your field of
interest, see  "customizing your home page"[4].
   
What happened to CERN?

1-6, Up, <RETURN> for more, Quit, or Help:
@end cartouche
@end example

Ok. Now type @samp{3}, and get the following screen:

@example
@cartouche
                                                  The World Wide Web project
                       WORLD WIDE WEB

The WorldWideWeb (W3) is a wide-area hypermedia[1] information retrieval
initiative aiming to give universal access to a large universe of documents.

Everything there is online about W3 is linked directly or indirectly to this
document, including an executive summary[2] of the project, an illustrated
talk[3] , Mailing lists[4] , Policy[5] and Conditions[6] , May's W3 news[7]
, Frequently Asked Questions[8] .

What's out there?[9]   Pointers to the world's online information,
                       subjects[10] , W3 servers[11] , etc.

WWW Software Products[12]
                       What there is and how to get it: clients, servers and
                       tools.

Technical[13]          Details of protocols, formats, program internals etc

Bibliography[14]       Paper documentation on W3 and references. Also:
                       manuals[15] .

1-20, Back, Up, <RETURN> for more, Quit, or Help:
@end cartouche
@end example

You navigate the web by typing the number next to a given
reference.  So if you want to know more about the web, hit 2.  This is
another system that bears playing with.


@c --------
@node Clients
@section Clients, or how to snare more on the Web

If you are used to plain-vanilla Unix or MS-DOS, then the way these
gophers and WAISs work seems quite straightforward.  But if you're used
to a computer with a graphical interface, such as a Macintosh, an IBM
compatible with Windows or a Next, you'll probably regard their
interfaces as somewhat primitive. And even to a veteran MS-DOS user, the 
World-Wide Web interface is rather clunky (and some of the documents and 
files on the Web now use special formatting that would confuse your poor 
computer). 
@cindex NeXT
@cindex NeXT Step
@cindex MS-DOS
@cindex Microsoft Windows
@cindex Macintosh

There are, however, ways to integrate these services into your
graphical user interface.  In fact, there are now ways to tie into the
Internet directly, rather than relying on whatever interface your
public-access system uses, through what are known as ``client'' programs.  
These programs provide graphical interfaces for everything from ftp to 
the World-Wide Web.  

There is now a growing number of these ``client'' programs for
everything from ftp to gopher.  PSI of Reston, Va., which offers
nationwide Internet access, in fact, requires its customers to use these
programs. Using protocols known as SLIP and PPP, these programs communicate
with the Net using the same basic data packets as much larger computers
online.
@cindex PSI
@cindex SLIP
@cindex PPP

Beyond integration with your own computer's ``desktop,'' client
programs let you do more than one thing at once on the net -- while you're
downloading a large file in one window, you can be chatting with a
friend through an Internet chat program in another.

Unfortunately, using a client program can cost a lot of money.  Some 
require you to be connected directly to the Internet through an Ethernet 
network for example.  Others work through modem protocols, such as SLIP, 
but public-access sites that allow such access may charge anywhere from 
$25 to $200 a month extra for the service.
@cindex SLIP

Your system administrator can give you more information on setting
up one of these connections.


@c --------
@node When Things Go Wrong VI
@section When Things Go Wrong

As the Internet grows ever more popular, its resources come under 
more of a strain.  If you try to use gopher in the middle of the day, at 
least on the East Coast of the U.S., you'll sometimes notice that it 
takes a very long time for particular menus or database searches to come 
up.  Sometimes, you'll even get a message that there are too many people 
connected to whichever service you're trying to use and so you can't get 
in.  The only alternative is to either try again in 20 minutes or so, or 
wait until later in the day, when the load might be lower.  When this 
happens in veronica, try one of the other veronica entries.

When you retrieve a file through gopher, you'll sometimes be asked 
if you want to store it under some ludicrously long name (there go our 
friends the system administrators again, using 128 characters just 
because Unix lets them).  With certain MS-DOS communications programs, if 
that name is longer than one line, you won't be able to backspace all the 
way back to the first line if you want to give it a simpler name.  
Backspace as far as you can.  Then, when you get ready to download it to 
your home computer, remember that the file name will be truncated on your 
end, because of MS-DOS's file-naming limitations.  Worse, your computer
might even reject the whole thing. What to do? Instead of saving it to
your home directory, mail it to yourself.  It should show up in your mail
by the time you exit gopher.  Then, use your mail command for saving it
to your home directory -- at which point you can name it anything you want.
Now you can download it.


@c --------
@node Gophers FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:

@b{David Riggins} maintains a list of gophers by type and category. You 
can find the most recent one at the ftp site @host{ftp.einet.net}, in the pub 
directory.  Look for a file with a name like @file{gopher-jewels.txt}. 
Alternately, you can get on a mailing list to get the latest version sent 
to your e-mailbox automatically. Send a mail message to
@email{gopherjewelslist-request@@tpis.cactus .org}
(yep, that first part is all one word).  Leave 
the ``subject:'' line blank, and as a message, write SUBSCRIBE. 

The Interpedia project is an attempt to take gopher one step 
further, by creating an online repository of all of the interesting and 
useful information availble on the Net and from its users. To get on the 
mailing list for the project, send an e-mail message, with a ``subject:'' 
of ``subscribe'' to @email{interpedia-request@@telerama.lm.com}.  You can get 
supporting documentation for the project via anonymous ftp at
@host{ftp.lm.com} 
in the @file{pub/interpedia} directory.

See also the Usenet newsgroups @news{comp.infosystems.*}:

@news{comp.infosystems.gopher},
@news{comp.infosystems.wais}, and
@news{comp.infosystems.www} are places to go for technical discussions about
Gopher, WAISs, and the World-Wide Web project respectively.
Moreover there are @news{comp.infosystems} for more general discussion of
related issues.
The group @news{comp.infosystems.gis} relates to Geographic Information
Systems, and thus is more specialized on this subject.

At present, there are no veronica clients;  veronica is a gopher tool.
An informal veronica FAQ is posted regularly in @news{comp.infosystems.gopher}
and archived on @host{veronica.scs.unr.edu} as @file{veronica/veronica-faq}.

There even exists a Gopher service to read Usenet news:
@samp{gopher gopher.msu.edu 4320}. But, the lines behind this
service are few, and thus it's likely that you get the following message,
when trying to enter:

@example
@cartouche
We are sorry, but our Usenet News gateway limits the number of
simultaneous connections.  If you were attempting to read news and were
instead directed to this file, all of those connections are in use.  We
offer this gateway as a "last resort" for people who have no other
access for reading Usenet.  We do not have the capacity to serve as the
Usenet gateway for large numbers of users around the Internet.
Individuals who like this style of access should ask their Internet
service providers to offer the same sort of gateway on their local
Gopher server.  Individuals and campuses should consider installing
local news feeds and local news readers (such as RN, NN, TIN, or
Trumpet) so that users can read and post to Usenet newsgroups
conveniently.

For system administrators: the software we use to implement this gateway
is the go4gw Gopher gateway software from Roland Schemers of Stanford
University.  This software should be available by anonymous ftp from
boombox.micro.umn.edu, somewhere under /pub/gopher.

-- The Michigan State University Gopher Team
@end cartouche
@end example


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``Reliable information is the basis of successful planning.''}
--- @b{Christoph Columbus}

@b{gopher}, n.
1. Any of various short tailed, burrowing mammals of the
family Geomyidae, of North America.  2. (Amer. colloq.) Native or
inhabitant of Minnesota: the Gopher State.  3. (Amer. colloq.) One
who runs errands, does odd-jobs, fetches or delivers documents for
office staff.  4. (computer tech.) software following a simple
protocol for burrowing through a TCP/IP internet.
@end flushright
