@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap13.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:50 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Business on the Net

@menu
* Setting Up Shop::
* Business FYI::
@end menu

@c --------
@node Setting Up Shop
@section Setting Up Shop

Back in olden days, oh, before 1990 or so, there were no markets in 
the virtual community -- if you wanted to buy a book, you still had to 
jump in your car and drive to the nearest bookstore.

This was because in those days, the Net consisted mainly of a series 
of government-funded networks on which explicit commercial activity was 
forbidden.  Today, much of the Net is run by private companies, which 
generally have no such restrictions, and a number of companies have begun 
experimenting with online ``shops'' or other services.  Many of these shops 
are run by booksellers, while the services range from delivery of indexed 
copies of federal documents to an online newsstand that hopes to entice 
you to subscribe to any of several publications (of the printed on paper 
variety).  A number of companies also use Usenet newsgroups (in the biz 
hierarchy) to distribute press releases and product information.

Still, commercial activity on the remains far below that found on 
other networks, such as CompuServe, with its Electronic Mall, or Prodigy, 
with its advertisements on almost every screen.  In part that's because 
of the newness and complexity of the Internet as a commercial medium.  In 
part, however, that is because of security concerns.  Companies worry 
about such issues as crackers getting into their system over the network, 
and many people do not like the idea of sending a credit-card number via 
the Internet (an e-mail message could be routed through several sites to 
get to its destination).  These concerns could disappear as Net users 
turn to such means as message encryption and ``digital signatures.'' In the 
meantime, however, businesses on the Net can still consider themselves 
something of Internet pioneers. 
@cindex Prodigy
@cindex CompuServe

A couple of public-access sites and a regional network have set up 
``marketplaces'' for online businesses. 

The World in Brookline, Mass., currently rents ``space'' to several 
bookstores and computer-programming firms, as well as an ``adult toy 
shop.''  To browse their offerings, use gopher to connect to

@example 
world.std.com
@end example

At the main menu, select ``Shops on the World.''

Msen in Ann Arbor provides its ``Msen Marketplace,'' where you'll find 
a travel agency and an ``Online Career Center'' offering help-wanted ads 
from across the country.  Msen also provides an ``Internet Business 
Pages,'' an online directory of companies seeking to reach the Internet 
community.  You can reach Msen through gopher at 

@example
gopher.msen.com
@end example

At the main menu, select ``Msen Marketplace.''

The Nova Scotia Technology Network runs a ``Cybermarket'' on its 
gopher service at

@example
nstn.ns.ca
@end example

There, you'll find an online bookstore that lets you order books through 
e-mail (to which you'll have to trust your credit-card number) and a 
similar ``virtual record store.'' Both let you search their wares by 
keyword or by browsing through catalogs.

Other online businesses include:
@table @asis
@item AnyWare Associates
This Boston company runs an Internet-to-fax
gateway that lets you send fax message anywhere
in the world via the Internet (for a fee, of 
course).  For more information, write
@email{sales@@awa.com}

@item Bookstacks Unlimited
This Cleveland bookstore offers a keyword-searchable
database of thousands of books for sale.  
Telnet: @host{books.com}

@item Counterpoint Publishing
Based in Cambridge, Mass., this company's main
Internet product is indexed versions of federal
journals, including the Federal Register (a daily
compendium of government contracts, proposed 
regulations and the like).  Internet users can
browse through recent copies, but complete access
will run several thousand dollars a year.  Use
gopher to connect to @host{enews.com}
and select ``Counterpoint Publishing''

@item Dialog
The national database company can be reached 
through telnet at @host{dialog.com}.
To log on, however, you will have first had to
set up a Dialog account.

@item Dow Jones News Retrieval
A wire service run by the information company
that owns the Wall Street Journal.  Available
via telnet at @host{djnr.dowjones.com}.
As with Dialog, you need an account to log on.

@item Infinity Link
Browse book, music, software, video-cassette and
laser-disk catalogs through this system based in
Malvern, Penn.  Use gopher to connect to
@host{columbia.ilc.com}. Log on as: @samp{cas}

@item The Internet Company
Sort of a service bureau, this company, based in
Cambridge, Mass., is working with several publishers
on Internet-related products.  Its Electronic
Newsstand offers snippets and special 
subscription rates to a number of national 
magazines, from the New Republic to the New 
Yorker.  Use gopher to connect to
@host{enews.com}

@item MarketBase
You can try the classified-ads system developed
by this company in Santa Barbara, Calif., by 
gopher to connect to @host{mb.com}.

@item O'Reilly and Associates
Best known for its ``Nutshell'' books on Unix, 
O'Reilly runs three Internet services.  The gopher
server, at @host{ora.com}
provides information about the company and its
books.  It posts similar information in the
@news{biz.oreilly.announce} Usenet newsgroup.  Its 
Global Network Navigator, accessible through the 
World-Wide Web, is a sort of online magazine that 
lets users browse through interesting services 
and catalogs. 
@end table


@c --------
@node Business FYI
@section FYI

The com-priv mailing list is the place to discuss issues surrounding 
the commercialization and the privatization of the Internet.  To 
subscribe (or un-subscribe), send an e-mail request to
@email{com-priv-request@@psi.com}.

@b{Mary Cronin}'s book, @fyi{Doing Business on the Internet} (1994, Van 
Nostrand Reinhold), takes a more in-depth look at the subject.

Kent State University in Ohio maintains a repository of 
@fyi{Business Sources on the Net}.
Use gopher to connect to @host{refmac.kent.edu}.

