@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap10.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:48 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Top node is: News of the World
@menu
* Clarinet UPI::
* Reuters::
* USA Today::
* The World Today::
* E-Mailing News Organizations::
* News of the World FYI::
@end menu

@c --------
@node Clarinet UPI
@section Clarinet: UPI, Dave Barry and Dilbert

     Usenet ``newsgroups'' can be something of a misnomer.  They may be 
interesting, informative and educational, but they are often not news, 
at least, not the way most people would think of them. But there are several 
sources of news and sports on the Net.  

     One of the largest is Clarinet, a company in Cupertino, Calf., that 
distributes wire-service news and columns, along with a news service 
devoted to computers and even the Dilbert comic strip, in Usenet form.  
@cindex Clarinet
@cindex Dilbert

     Distributed in Usenet form, Clarinet stories and columns are 
organized into more than 100 newsgroups (in this case, a truly 
appropriate name), some of them with an extremely narrow focus, for 
example, @news{clari.news.gov.taxes}.  The general news and sports come from 
United Press International; the computer news from the NewsBytes 
service; the features from several syndicates. 
@cindex NewsBytes
@cindex United Press International
@cindex UPI

     Because Clarinet charges for its service, not all host systems 
carry its articles. Those that do carry them as Usenet groups starting 
with @news{clari.*}.  As with other Usenet hierarchies, these are named starting 
with broad area and ending with more specific categories.  Some of these 
include business news (@news{clari.biz}); general national and foreign news, 
politics and the like (@news{clari.news}), sports (@news{clari.sports}); columns by 
@var{Mike Royko}, @var{Miss Manners}, @var{Dave Barry} and others (@news{clari.feature}); and 
NewsBytes computer and telecommunications reports (@news{clari.nb}).  Because 
Clarinet started in Canada, there is a separate set of
@news{clari.canada} 
newsgroups.  The @news{clari.nb} newsgroups are divided into specific computer 
types (@news{clari.nb.apple}, for example).
@cindex Apple Computer
@cindex Royko, Mike
@cindex Manners, Miss

     Clari news groups feature stories updated around the clock.  There 
are even a couple of "bulletin" newsgroups for breaking stories: 
@news{clari.news.bulletin} and @news{clari.news.urgent}.  Clarinet also sets up new 
newsgroups for breaking stories that become ongoing ones (such as major 
natural disasters, coups in large countries and the like). 

     Occasionally, you will see stories in clari newsgroups that just 
don't seem to belong there.  Stories about former Washington, D.C. mayor 
@var{Marion Barry}, for example, often wind interspersed among columns by
@var{Dave Barry}.
@cindex Barry, Marion
@cindex Barry, Dave

     This happens because of the way wire services work.  UPI uses 
three-letter codes to route its stories to the newspapers and radio 
stations that make up most of its clientele, and harried editors on 
deadline sometimes punch in the wrong code.
 

@c --------
@node Reuters
@section Reuters

This is roughly the British equivalent of UPI or Associated Press. 
Msen, a public-access site in Michigan, currently feeds Reuters 
dispatches into a series of Usenet-style conferences.  If your site 
subscribes to this service, look for newsgroups with names that begin in 
@news{msen.reuters}.


@c --------
@node USA Today
@section USA Today

If your host system doesn't carry the clari or @news{msen.reuters} 
newsgroups, you might be able to keep up with the news a different way 
over the Net.  USA Today has been something of an online newspaper 
pioneer, selling its stories to bulletin-board and online systems across 
the country for several years.  Cleveland Free-Net provides the online 
version of USA Today (along with all its other services) for free.  
Currently, the paper only publishes five days a week, so you'll have to 
get your weekend news fix elsewhere. 
@cindex USA Today
@cindex Cleveland Free-Net

Telnet: @host{freenet-in-a.cwru.edu} or
@host{freenet-in-b.cwru.edu}

After you connect and log in, look for this menu entry: NPTN/USA
TODAY HEADLINE NEWS.  Type the number next to it and hit enter.  You'll
then get a menu listing a series of broad categories, such as sports and
telecommunications.  Choose one, and you'll get a yet another menu,
listing the ten most recent dates of publication.  Each of these
contains one-paragraph summaries of the day's news in that particular
subject.


@c --------
@node The World Today
@section The World Today, from Belarus to Brazil

Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty are American radio stations
that broadcast to the former Communist countries of eastern Europe.
Every day, their news departments prepare a summary of news in those
countries, which is then disseminated via the Net, through a Bitnet 
mailing list and a Usenet newsgroup.

To have the daily digests sent directly to your e-mailbox, send a 
message to 
@cindex Radio Free Europe
@cindex Radio Liberty

@example
listserv@@ubvm.cc.buffalo.edu
@end example

Leave the subject line blank, and as a message, write:

@example
subscribe rferl-l Your Name
@end example

Alternately, look for the bulletins in the Usenet newsgroup
@news{misc.news-east-europe.rferl}.

Daily Brazilian news updates are available (in Portuguese) from the
University of Sao Paulo.  Use anonymous ftp to connect to

@example
uspif.if.usp.br
@end example

Use @samp{cd} to switch to the whois directory.
Today's news summary is stored in @file{news.new}, and in
@file{news.old} you'll fin the previous days' news.        

@example
get news.new
@end example

Daily summaries of news reports from France (in French) are availble 
on the National Capital FreeNet in Ottawa, Ont. Telnet to 
@host{freenet.carleton.ca}
and log on as: @samp{guest}.  At the main menu, select the number for ``The 
Newsstand'' and then ``La presse de France.''


@c --------
@node E-Mailing News Organizations
@section E-Mailing News Organizations

A number of newspapers, television stations and networks and other 
news organizations now encourage readers and viewers to communicate with 
them electronically, via Internet e-mail addresses.  They include:
@table @asis

@item The Middlesex News, Framingham, Mass.
@email{sysop@@news.ci.net}

@item The Boston Globe
@email{voxbox@@globe.com}

@item WCVB-TV, Boston, Mass.
@email{wcvb@@aol.com}

@item NBC News, New York, N.Y.
@email{nightly@@nbc.com}

@item The Ottawa Citizen, Ottawa, Ont.
@email{ottawa-citizen@@freenet.carleton.ca}

@item CJOH-TV, Ottawa, Ont.
@email{ab363@@freenet.carleton.ca}

@item St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times
@email{73174.3344@@compuserve.com}

@item Illinois Issues, Springfield, Ill.
@email{gherardi@@sangamon.edu}

@item WTVF-TV, Nashville, Tenn.
@email{craig.ownsby@@nashville.com}
@end table


@c --------
@node News of the World FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:

The @news{clari.net.newusers} newsgroup on Usenet provides a number of
articles about Clarinet and ways of finding news stories of interest
to you.

To discuss the future of newspapers and newsrooms in the new 
electronic medium, subscribe to the Computer Assisted Reporting and 
Research mailing list on Bitnet.  Send a mail message of

@example
Subscribe carr-l Your Name
@end example

to @email{listserv@@ulkyvm.bitnet}.


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``Be it true or false, so it be news.''}
--- @b{Ben Johnson}, @fyi{News from the World}

@emph{``In a medium in which a News piece takes a minute
and an `In-Depth' piece takes two minutes,
the Simple will drive out the Complex.''}
--- @b{Frank Mankiewicz}
@end flushright
