@c
@c  EFF's (Extended) Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin with Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: gday.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:25:01 joke Rel $
@c


@flushright
@value{origin-date}
@end flushright

I came across this guide while reading ``EFFector Online Volume 5 No. 15,
8/20/1993'' (A Publication of the Electronic Frontier Foundation,
ISSN 1062-9424), that is available via @news{comp.org.eff.news} and
immediately decided to get my hands on it. After browsing through the
raw ASCII text file, I thought that such a useful thing, should have a more
beautiful ``face'' (and fewer ``bugs'').

As Shari points out, the EFF is still ``fishing for a publisher.'' In other
words, it's far from being clear when this guide will be available as hard
copy, unless you want to print out the ``buggy'' ASCII file.
Thus, I started over to make the bulk a @emph{Texinfo} document, loosely
modelled after
@var{Brendan Kehoe}'s @fyi{Zen and the Art of the Internet},
originally written for Widener University's, Computer Science Department,
and later published as:
@cindex Kehoe, Brendan P.

@quotation
@b{Kehoe, B.P.} (1992)
@fyi{Zen and the Art of the Internet: A Beginner's
Guide to the Internet.} 2nd Edition (July). Prentice Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ. 112 pages.
The 1st Edition, (February, 2nd) is still available via anonymous ftp from
@host{ftp.cs.widener.edu} and many other Internet archives.
@end quotation

It was the first comprehensive book on the Internet available.
(Despite the ``traditional'' postings in
@news{news.announce.newusers} originated by ex-@b{Net.god}
@var{Gene Spafford} @email{spaf@@cs.purdue.edu}
of Purdue University
and the @news{news.answers} archive maintained by @b{Net.demi-god}
@var{Jonathan I. Kamens} @email{jik@@security.ov.com} of MIT).

Situation has changed dramatically, since. More and more books
get into the stores, and hopefully facilitate the life
of ``newbies'' on the Net. Just to mention some IMHO excellent examples:
@cindex Spafford, Gene
@cindex Kamens, Jonathan I.
@cindex IMHO

@quotation
@b{Krol, E.} (1992)
@fyi{The Whole Internet: Catalog & User's Guide.}
O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., Sebastopol, CA. 376 pages.

@b{LaQuey, T.} and @b{Ryer, J.C.} (1992)
@fyi{The Internet Companion: A Beginner's
Guide to Global Networking.} Addison-Wesley Publishing Co.,
Reading, MA. 208 pages.

@b{Gilster, P.} (1993)
@fyi{The Internet Navigator: The Essential Guide to Network
exploration for the Individual Dial-Up User.} Wiley & Sons,
New York, NY. 470 pages.

@b{Hahn, H.} (1993)
@fyi{The Internet Complete Reference}
Osborne McGraw-Hill. 800 pages.
@end quotation

But, ``the Net'' in its present form would have never been evolved
without the hundreds of un-paid voluntary efforts (@i{de facto} Internet still
@emph{is} run on voluntary basis), so here are @emph{my} two cents:
The output of several night-shift editing sessions.

@quotation
``The @var{Big Dummy's Guide to the Internet}
is now available at your local laser printer...''
@end quotation

See ya on the Net!
@sp 1

@b{p.s.:} Although this guide is almost complete, and I really, really,
honestly, don't have the time to go over it once again, feel free to report
``bugs'', or any inconsistencies you find.
Drop me ``more quotes,'' further additions, requests for moral support,
or ``whatever-you-want''...
Just an e-mail away.

@sp 1
@b{p.p.s.:} I'd like to say a BIG ``thank you'' to @var{Shari Steele}, for
her immediate excitement on this project. @var{Adam Gaffin}, who generously
accepted my changes to his initial ASCII version.
@var{Howard Rheingold}, who let me include his article, now serving as
superb afterword of long-year first hand experience in cyberspace
(and yes, I mentioned your new book, Howard @code{;-)}).
And, last not least, thanks to @var{Bruce Sterling}, who also ``gave away''
an article for free.

Again, @var{Bernd Raichle} @email{raichle@@informatik.uni-stuttgart.de}
courtesy of the University of Stuttgart,
provided @TeX{}pertize, when @TeX{}pertize was badly needed (see file
@file{specials.texi} for your enlightenment).
BTW: Over the past 2 years, we've been doing some such projects, although
we haven't met F2F, yet. This is one of the effects of the Net.
(It thus should be termed ``Net.effect''.)
@cindex Raichle, Bernd
@cindex F2F
@cindex Net.effect

Additional thanks to @var{Brendan Kehoe} @email{brendan@@zen.org} 
for the @emph{Texinfo}
release of @fyi{Zen}, from which I borrowed this and that.
@cindex Kehoe, Brendan P.
@cindex Zen
FYI: Brendan works on the 3rd editition of his book, and might
be able to release the 2nd to the Net, depending on Prentice-Hall's
legal attorneys. So keep your fingers crossed.@footnote{Unfortunately the
legal eagles of Prentice-Hall didn't }
@sp 1


@c --------
@flushright
@value{second-release-date}
@end flushright
@c @section G'day, folks! II

Some more nights have passed, and ``GNU Info'' format is fully supported,
now. You can use either Emacs in INFO mode, or just GNU's @code{info}
browser (also available as @code{xinfo} for the X window system):
type @samp{info -f bdgtti-@value{edition}.info} and read ``Dummy's'' online in
hypertextual fashion.

But since edition 1.01, ``Dummy's'' not only features an ``Info'' version.
It also comes with HTML support, i.e. the HyperText Markup Language format,
that is used by the World-Wide Web project
(@pxref{Gophers, World-Wide Web} for some more ideas on this).
The @code{bdgtti-@value{edition}*.html} files can thus be browsed using the
WWW tools: from within @code{xmosaic},
e.g. load @samp{bdgtti-@value{edition}_toc.html}, and there you go!

Finally, some more folks have helped along the way.

Many thanks to @var{Lionel Cons}
@email{cons@@dxcern.cern.ch} courtesy of CERN, who immediately updated his
@cindex Cons, Lionel
@file{texi2html} to make it work for this project.
(Note that you need @var{Larry Wall's} @code{perl} to run this program.)
@findex perl
@cindex Wall, Larry

@ifinfo
@var{Ingo Dressler}
@end ifinfo
@iftex
@var{Ingo Dre@ss ler}
@cindex Dre@ss ler, Ingo
@end iftex
@email{id@@germany.eu.net}
@cindex EUnet Deutschland GmbH
courtesy of EUnet Deutschland, reserved a place on @host{ftp.germany.eu.net}
to distribute the European A4 paper edition of this guide.
See under @file{/pub/ books/big-dummys-guide} using traditional FTP, or
point the Web to:
@file{ftp://ftp.germany. eu.net/pub/books/big-dummys-guide}.
This will be the default server for the European editions.

@quotation
``The @var{Big Dummy's Guide to the Internet}
is now available in a variety of easily convertible formats,
@emph{and} at your local laser printer...''
@end quotation
@sp 1


@c --------
@flushright
@value{third-release-date}
@end flushright
@c @section G'day, folks! III

Welcome to the Christmas issue of one of the @emph{most read} books on
the Internet! This time, we only fix the bugs that have been reported
from most the folks listed below.

From this edition on, the standard A4, and US letter size versions are
merged into one directory. Moreoever, has the EFF a new online activist,
named @var{Stanton McCandlish} @email{mech@@eff.org}
@cindex McCandlish, Stanton
who really seems to take care about this project, and has properly set up
the EFF's FTP site. So, the ``EFF is out of pace'' messages from former
postings entitled @fyi{FAQ: Big Dummy's Guide, Life and Everything...},
(that also serves as the README file to the Texinfo release), have become
obsolete.

A major rework of this guide, including an extensive overhaul of the
World-Wide Web chapter, and the HTML version is planned
and scheduled for ``mid-of-next-year-or-so''.
I thus recommend not to hold your breath. You shouldn't expect Texinfo
edition 1.04 to come out prior to July '94.

Thanks to all of you, who sent bug fixes, made suggestions, or just
dropped a @fyi{Thanks for all the Fish!} message.
@sp 1

@c --------
@flushright
@value{forth-release-date}
@end flushright

Never say never, folks. Adam Gaffin, released version 1.4 of his ASCII
version on December 20th, and I just couldn't resist to get the Texinfo
edition back into the game, and move it from 1.03 to 1.4.
So here it is. Anyway, the statement from above still holds true, it just
needs a little bit of ``adjustment.''

@quotation
``I thus recommend not to hold your breath. You shouldn't expect Texinfo
@emph{edition 1.5} to come out prior to July '94.''
@end quotation
@sp 1


@c --------
@flushright
@value{fifth-release-date}
@end flushright

I know, I know, and I don't have any excuses this time.
Here's edition 2.2. Be happy with it!

@quotation
``However, I still recommend not to hold your breath. You shouldn't expect Texinfo
@emph{edition 7.0} to come out prior to July 2004. (So God will... ;-)''
@end quotation


@c --------
@flushright
@value{sixth-release-date}
@end flushright

Welcome back, folks! This an @emph{interim} release of edition 2.3 since we
had to fix the name of the game due to legal problems. (It's very hard to
find a real new name for a book on Internet these days!)

On July 1st, MIT Press published this guide, more precisely, its core
manual (Chapters 1 to 13), under the name @fyi{Everybody's Guide to the
Internet}:

@quotation
@b{Gaffin, A.} (1994)
@fyi{Everybody's Guide to the Internet.}
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 200 pages. $14.95. ISBN 9-780262-67105-7.
@end quotation

Each month, Adam now posts an article with subject line
@fyi{Everybody's Update}, containing new resources, corrections, et cetera.
These articles are also individually available via the two main
distribution servers @host{ftp.eff.org} in @file{/pub/Net_info/EFF_Net_Guide/
updates} and @host{ftp.germany.eu.net} in @file{/pub/books/eff-guide/updates}.
However, you can subscribe to a mailing list, an then have updates automatically
delivered to you. Email subscription works by sending a message body of
``subscribe net-update'' (without the quote) to @email{listserv@@eff.org}

The next major edition will come out, when Adam finishes his effort to merge
the essence of the @fyi{Everybody's Update} postings into ASCII version 2.2,
plus some more additions.

Several translation projects of this guide into Italian, Hungarian, German,
and even Russian are also on their way. If you want to venture into these
voluntary efforts too, send e-mail to @email{ask@@eff.org} for information.

@quotation
BTW: ``Have you been at Woodstock '94? Adam Curry made it available via
@cindex Curry, Adam
@cindex Woodstock 94
http://metaverse.com/woodstock/index.html. And have you seen the
pictures from the meeting of Jupiter and comet Shoemaker-Levy
@cindex Jupiter
@cindex Shoemaker-Levy
at
ftp://ftp.iglou.com/comet/images/ or via WWW at
http://meteor.anu.edu.au/mssso-observations.html?
What about ordering Pizza from PizzaNet at http://www.pizzahut.com?
Too bad they don't deliver pizzas to Germany, yet...''
@cindex PizzaNet
@end quotation
@sp 1

In the order the contributors appeared in my mailbox:
Shari Steele, Howard Rheingold, Bernd Raichle, Adam Gaffin, 
Brendan Kehoe, Bruce Sterling, Jonathan I. Kamens, Gene Spafford, 
Greg Chartrand, Brad Templeton, Olivier M. J. Crepin-Leblond, Ingo Dressler, 
David Sternlight, Otto Lang, Christopher K. Davis, Iain O'Cain, Lionel Cons, 
David J. Bianco, Achim Voermanek, Noel Hunter, Martin Schweikert, 
R. Stewart Ellis, Mark Sanderson, Bo Frese Rasmussen, Chris Varner, 
Timo Harmo, Rik Harris, James Grinter, Oscar Nierstrasz, Jeremy Payne, 
David Trueman, Michael P. Urban, Mark Woodward, Iain Lea, David E. Fox, 
Peter Smulders, Gert C. Van Rooyen, Patrick Nielsen Hayden, Robin Evans, 
Tim Berners-Lee, Helen Trillian Rose Davis, Jon L. Spear, Alan Legatt, 
Paul Brown, Larry W. Virden, Ted Shapin, Roman Schwartz, TAKADA Toshihiro, 
Fred Schimmel, Antony Cooper, Lennat Tower, jr., Jon Bell, John Campbell, 
Ed Moore, Axel Belinfante, Arthur Secret, Jason Schmit, Uri S. Naishtut, 
Chris Ruprecht, Dan Brown, Keith Bostic, Clemens Schrimpe, Reinhold Tokar, 
Jeff Dingbaum, Jim Meyering, Otmar Lendl, Warwick Kau-Choon Chai, 
Pieter Immelman, Joseph Taylor Potts, Reiner Hoenig, Steve Cisler, 
James Rice, Stephen C. Trier, James E. Burns, Rodrigo Vanegas,
Steve VanDevender, Reinier de Vos, Gerald Malitz, David Mason, Volker Kunert, 
David Beasley, Anthony Rajakumar, Aniekan Akpaffiong, A. Solomon Eaglstein, 
Jan Adlington, Elaine Jackson, John Sheckler, Larry W. Virden, 
David Beasley, Dave Rosselle, Cristine Hollinshead, Wolfhang Banzaf,
Stoffel Erasmus, Stanton McCandlish, Robert E. Maas, Susanne Spitzer,
Bryan D. Boyle, Paul F. Mende, Michael A. Patton, Joseph E. Sacco,
Steinar Kjaernsrod, Luis Ochoa Giraldo, Thomas Gellekum, Moritz D. Klingholz,
Benedikt Homann, Holger Hoffstaette,  Maray Tamas, 
Forrest Cook, Shmuel Browns, Roland H. Pesch, Richard Stallman, Dawn Cooley,
Rob Kabacoff, Andreas Gehmeyr, John O'Hare, George D. Greenwade,
Tony Sprinzl, Sean Lally, Roger Lighty, Jared Rhine, Kathy Lewis.
Erdal Taner, Eric Morgan, Steve Belczyk,
Heiko Schlichting, Ping Huang, Rob Kabacoff, Andreas Gehmeyr,
Jonathan Granrose, John Aspden, A.U. Weisshuhn, Markus Stumpf,
Eric De Mund, Alfredo De Regil, Ed Simonds, Danny Yang, Pete Ashdown,
Jason Holt, Florin Neumann, Szymon Sokol, Kimmo Ketolainen, Robert Schultz,
Dan Stromberg, Computex, Kevin Savetz, Larry Landweber, Jaroslaw Rafa,
Arthur Britto, Adam Atkinson, Thomas Neugebauer, Nicola Doering,
Dirk Eddelbuettel, Chris Schmitt,
and
Scott D. Yelich.

Special thanks to Naomi Schulman, my ``virtual granny'' at Stanford, and
my virtual and non-virtual sisters: Monika, Oggi,
Bettina, Gabi, Christine, Kristina, Claudia, Christiane, Heidi, Marietta,
Martina, Angela, Astrid, Kirsten, Ilke, Kerstin, Renate, Rosie, Jenna, Heike,
Nicole, Cornelia, Susanne, Davika, Nora, Ute, Heike II, Jeanine,
Jaqueline and some other @emph{long legged complex systems}, who contributed
passion to the @emph{abstract hill} I compiled over the past years.

@sp 1
Enjoy the trip!

@flushright
@ifinfo
Joerg Heitkoetter
@cindex Heitkoetter, Joerg
@end ifinfo
@iftex
J@"org Heitk@"otter
@end iftex
@email{joke@@Germany.EU.net}
EUnet Deutschland GmbH
Techno-Park, Emil-Figge-Str. 80
D-44227 Dortmund
@value{update-date}
@end flushright
@iftex
@cindex Heitk@"otter, J@"org
@end iftex


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``It's kind of fun to do the impossible.''}
--- @b{Walt Disney}

@emph{``If I have seen farther than others,
it is because I was standing on the shoulders of giants.''}
--- @b{Sir Isaac Newton}

@emph{``A work of art is never finished, only abandoned.''}
--- @b{Anonymous}
@end flushright
