@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: lingo.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:25:04 joke Rel $
@c


This glossary is only a tiny subset of net.speak, all the various terms and
phrases that people regularly use on Internet.  For a more
complete (and more entertaining) reference, get a
copy of @fyi{The New Hacker's Dictionary}, which is based on a VERY
large text file called the Jargon File, edited by Eric Raymond
@email{eric@@snark.thyrsus.com}.
@cindex Net.speak

The 2nd edition just came out in December 1993, and is available from
the MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02142.
The up-to-date version of the Jargon File
@fyi{The on-line hacker Jargon File, version 3.0, 29 July 1993},
is kept on various FTP servers
(e.g. from @host{ftp.gnu.ai.mit.edu} as file @file{/pub/gnu/jarg300.txt.gz}).
@cindex Raymond, Eric
@sp 1


@explain{@code{:-)}}
This odd symbol is one of the ways a person can portray ``mood'' in
the very flat medium of computers---by using ``smilies.''  This is
``metacommunication,'' and there are literally hundreds of them, from
the obvious to the obscure (@pxref{Smiley Dictionary}).
This particular example expresses ``happiness.''  Don't see it?
Tilt your head to the left 90 degrees. Smilies, or smileys are also
used to denote sarcasm.

@explain{ASCII}
Has two meanings.  ASCII is a universal computer code
for English letters and characters.  Computers store
all information as binary numbers. In ASCII, the
letter ``A'' is stored as 01000001, whether the computer
is made by IBM, Apple or Commodore.  ASCII also refers
to a method, or protocol, for copying files from one
computer to another over a network, in which neither
computer checks for any errors that might have been
caused by static or other problems.

@explain{ANSI}
Computers use several different methods for deciding
how to put information on your screen and how your
keyboard interacts with the screen.  ANSI is one of
these ``terminal emulation'' methods.  Although most
popular on PC-based bulletin-board systems, it can also
be found on some Net sites.  To use it properly, you
will first have to turn it on, or enable it, in your
communications software.

@explain{ARPANet}
A predecessor of the Internet.  Started in 1969 with
funds from the Defense Department's Advanced Projects
Research Agency.

@explain{Backbone}
A high-speed network that connects several powerful
computers.  In the U.S., the backbone of the Internet is
often considered the NSFNet, a government funded link
between a handful of supercomputer sites across the
country.

@explain{Baud}
The speed at which modems transfer data.  One baud is
roughly equal to one bit per second.  It takes eight
bits to make up one letter or character.  Modems rarely
transfer data at exactly the same speed as their listed
baud rate because of static or computer problems. More
expensive modems use systems, such as Microcom Network
Protocol (MNP), which can correct for these errors or
which ``compress'' data to speed up transmission.

@explain{BITNet}
Another, academically oriented, international computer
network, which uses a different set of computer
instructions to move data.  It is easily accessible to
Internet users through e-mail, and provides a large
number of conferences and databases.  Its name comes from
``Because It's Time.''

@explain{Bounce}
What your e-mail does when it cannot get to its
recipient -- it bounces back to you -- unless it goes 
off into the ether, never to be found again.

@explain{Command line}
On Unix host systems, this is where you tell the
machine what you want it to do, by entering commands.

@explain{Communications software}
A program that tells a modem how to work.

@explain{Daemon}
An otherwise harmless Unix program that normally works
out of sight of the user. On the Internet, you'll most
likely encounter it only when your e-mail is not
delivered to your recipient -- you'll get back your
original message plus an ugly message from a ``mailer
daemon.''

@explain{Distribution}
A way to limit where your Usenet postings go.  Handy for
such things as ``for sale'' messages or discussions of
regional politics.

@explain{Domain}
The last part of an Internet address, such as ``news.com.''

@explain{Dot}
When you want to impress the net veterans you meet at
parties, say ``dot'' instead of ``period,'' for example: ``My
address is john at site dot domain dot com.''

@explain{Dot file}
A file on a Unix public-access system
that alters the way you or your messages interact with
that system.  For example, your .login file contains
various parameters for such things as the text editor you
get when you send a message.   When you do an ls command,
these files do not appear in the directory listing; do
@samp{ls -a} to list them.

@explain{Down}
When a public-access site runs into technical trouble,
and you can no longer gain access to it, it's down.

@explain{Download}
Copy a file from a host system to your computer.  There
are several different methods, or protocols, for
downloading files, most of which periodically check the
file as it is being copied to ensure no information is
inadvertently destroyed or damaged during the process.
Some, such as XMODEM, only let you download one file at
a time.  Others, such as batch-YMODEM and ZMODEM, let
you type in the names of several files at once, which
are then automatically downloaded.

@explain{EMACS}
From Editing MACroS.  A standard Unix text editor preferred by Unix types
that beginners tend to hate.                

@explain{E-mail}
Electronic mail -- a way to send a private message to
somebody else on the Net. Used as both noun and verb.

@explain{Emoticon}
A smiley. See @code{:-)}.

@explain{F2F}
Face to Face.  When you actually meet those people you
been corresponding with/flaming.

@explain{FAQ}
Frequently Asked Questions.  A compilation of answers to
these.  Many Usenet newsgroups have these files, which
are posted once a month or so for beginners.

@explain{FYI}
For Your Interest.

@explain{Film at 11}
One reaction to an overwrought argument: ``Imminent death
of the Net predicted. Film at 11.''

@explain{Finger}
An Internet program that lets you get some bit of
information about another user, provided they have first
created a @file{.plan} file.

@explain{Flame}
Online yelling and/or ranting directed at somebody else.
Often results in flame wars, which occasionally turn into
holy wars (@xref{Flame Wars to Killfiles}).

@explain{Followup}
A Usenet posting that is a response to an earlier
message.

@explain{Foo/foobar}
A sort of online algebraic place holder, for example: ``If
you want to know when another site is run by a for-profit
company, look for an address in the form of
@email{foo@@foobar.com}.''

@explain{Fortune cookie}
An inane/witty/profund comment that can be found around
the net.

@explain{Freeware}
Software that doesn't cost anything.

@explain{FTP}
File-transfer Protocol.  A system for transferring files
across the Net.

@explain{Get a life}
What to say to somebody who has, perhaps, been spending a
wee bit too much time in front of a computer.

@explain{GIF}
Graphics Interchange Format.  A format developed in the
mid-1980s by CompuServe for use in photo-quality graphics
images.  Now commonly used everywhere online.

@explain{GNU}
Gnu's Not Unix.  A project of the Free Software
Foundation to write a free version of the Unix operating
system.

@explain{Hacker}
On the Net, unlike among the general public, this is not
a bad person; it is simply somebody who enjoys stretching
hardware and software to their limits, seeing just what 
they can get their computers to do.  What many people 
call hackers, net.denizens refer to as crackers.

@explain{Handshake}
Two modems trying to connect first do this to agree on
how to transfer data.

@explain{Hang}
When a modem fails to hang up.

@explain{Holy war}
Arguments that involve certain basic tenets of faith,
about which one cannot disagree without setting one of
these off.  For example: IBM PCs are inherently superior to
Macintoshes.

@explain{Host system}
A public-access site; provides Net access to people
outside the research and government community.

@explain{IMHO}
In My Humble Opinion.

@explain{Internet}
A worldwide system for linking smaller computer
networks together.  Networks connected through the
Internet use a particular set of communications
standards to communicate, known as TCP/IP.

@explain{Killfile}
A file that lets you filter Usenet postings to some
extent, by excluding messages on certain topics or from
certain people.

@explain{Log on/log in}
Connect to a host system or public-access site.

@explain{Log off}
Disconnect from a host system.

@explain{Lurk}
Read messages in a Usenet newsgroup without ever saying
anything.

@explain{Mailing list}
Essentially a conference in which messages are delivered
right to your mailbox, instead of to a Usenet newsgroup.
You get on these by sending a message to a specific e-mail
address, which is often that of a computer that
automates the process.

@explain{MIME}
Multi-purpose Internet Mail Extensions. A currently (1993)
heavily developing extension of the Internet
mail protocol, that enables sending of 8 bit e-mail messages,
e.g. to support extended character sets, voice mail,
FAX images, etc. Read @news{comp.mail.mime} if you want
to keep up with new developments.

@explain{MOTSS}
Members of the Same Sex.  Gays and Lesbians online.
Originally an acronym used in the 1980 federal census.

@explain{Net.god}
One who has been online since the beginning, who knows
all and who has done it all.

@explain{Net.personality}
Somebody sufficiently opinionated/flaky/with plenty of
time on his hands to regularly post in dozens of
different Usenet newsgroups, whose presence is known to 
thousands of people.

@explain{Net.police}
Derogatory term for those who would impose their
standards on other users of the Net.  Often used in
vigorous flame wars (in which it occasionally mutates to
@b{Net.nazis}).
@cindex Net.nazi

@explain{Netiquette}
A set of common-sense guidelines for not annoying others.

@explain{Network}
A communications system that links two or more
computers. It can be as simple as a cable strung
between two computers a few feet apart or as complex
as hundreds of thousands of computers around the world
linked through fiber optic cables, phone lines and
satellites.

@explain{Newbie}
Somebody new to the Net.  Sometimes used derogatorily by 
@b{net.veterans} who have forgotten that they, too, were
once newbies who did not innately know the answer to
everything. ``Clueless newbie'' is always derogatory.

@explain{Newsgroup}
A Usenet conference.

@explain{NIC}
Network Information Center.  As close as an Internet-
style network gets to a hub; it's usually where you'll
find information about that particular network.

@explain{NREN}
National Research and Education Network. The future of the
U.S. part of the Internet. Said to be 50 times faster than
currently (1993).

@explain{NSA line eater}
The more aware/paranoid Net users believe that the
National Security Agency has a super-powerful computer
assigned to reading everything posted on the Net.   They
will jokingly (?) refer to this line eater in their
postings. Goes back to the early days of the Net when
the bottom lines of messages would sometimes disappear
for no apparent reason.

@explain{NSF}
National Science Foundation.  Funds the NSFNet, a 
high-speed network that once formed the backbone of the 
Internet in the U.S. 

@explain{Offline}
When your computer is not connected to a host system
or the Net, you are offline.

@explain{Online}
When your computer is connected to an online service,
bulletin-board system or public-access site.

@explain{Ping}
A program that can trace the route a message takes from
your site to another site.

@explain{.plan file}
A file that lists anything you want others on the Net to
know about you.  You place it in your home directory on
your public-access site.  Then, anybody who fingers
(@xref{Telnet, Finger},)
you, will get to see this file.

@explain{Post}
To compose a message for a Usenet newsgroup and then send
it out for others to see.

@explain{Postmaster}
The person to contact at a particular site to ask for
information about the site or complain about one of
his/her user's behavior.

@explain{Protocol}
The method used to transfer a file between a host
system and your computer. There are several types,
such as Kermit,  YMODEM and ZMODEM.

@explain{Prompt}
When the host system asks you to do something and
waits for you to respond.  For example, if you see
``login:'' it means type your user name.

@explain{README}
Files found on FTP sites that explain what is in a given
FTP directory or which provide other useful information
(such as how to use FTP).

@explain{Real Soon Now}
A vague term used to describe when something will
actually happen.

@explain{RFC}
Request for Comments.  A series of documents that
describe various technical aspects of the Internet.

@explain{ROTFL}
Rolling on the Floor Laughing.  How to respond to a
particularly funny comment.

@explain{ROT13}
A simple way to encode bad jokes, movie reviews that give
away the ending, pornography, etc.  Essentially, each
letter in a message is replace by the letter 13 spaces
away from it in the alphabet.  There are online decoders
to read these; nn and rn have them built in. 

@explain{RTFM}
Read the, uh, you know, Manual.  Often used in flames
against people who ask computer-related questions that
could be easily answered with a few minutes with a
manual. More politely: RTM.

@explain{Screen capture}
A part of your communications software that
opens a file on your computer and saves to it whatever
scrolls past on the screen while connected to a host
system.

@explain{Server}
A computer that can distribute information or files
automatically in response to specifically worded e-mail
requests.

@explain{Shareware}
Software that is freely available on the Net.  If you 
like and use the software, you should send in the fee
requested by the author, whose name and address will be
found in a file distributed with the software.

@explain{.sig file}
Sometimes, @file{.signature} file.  A file that, when placed in
your home directory on your public-access site, will
automatically be appended to every Usenet posting you
write.

@explain{.sig quote}
A profound/witty/quizzical/whatever quote that you
include in your @file{.sig} file.

@explain{Signal-to-noise ratio}
The amount of useful information to be found in a given
Usenet newsgroup.  Often used derogatorily, for example: 
``the signal-to-noise ratio in this newsgroup is pretty low.''

@explain{SIMTEL20}
The White Sands Missile Range used to maintain a giant 
collection of free and low-cost software of all kinds, 
which was ``mirrored'' to numerous other ftp sites on the
Net.  In the fall of 1993, the Air Force decided it had
better things to do than maintain a free software library
and shut it down.  But you'll still see references to
the collection, known as SIMTEL20, around the Net.

@explain{Smiley}
A way to describe emotion online.  Look at this with
your head tilted to the left @code{:-)}.  There are scores
of these smileys, from grumpy to quizzical.

@explain{Snail mail}
Mail that comes through a slot in your front door or a
box mounted outside your house.

@explain{Sysadmin}
The system administrator; the person who runs a host 
system or public-access site.

@explain{Sysop}
A system operator.  Somebody who runs a bulletin-board
system.

@explain{TANSTAAFL}
There Ain't No Such Thing as a Free Lunch.

@explain{TLA}
Three Letter Acronym, such as IBM, DEC, etc.

@explain{TCP/IP}
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. The 
particular system for transferring information over a 
computer network that is at the heart of the Internet.

@explain{Telnet}
A program that lets you connect to other computers on
the Internet.

@explain{Terminal emulation}
There are several methods for determining how your
keystrokes and screen interact with a public-access
site's operating system.  Most communications programs
offer a  choice of ``emulations'' that let you mimic the
keyboard that would normally be attached directly to
the host-system computer.

@explain{UUCP}
Unix-to-Unix CoPy.  A method for transferring Usenet
postings and e-mail that requires far fewer net resources
than TCP/IP, but which can result in considerably slower
transfer times.

@explain{Upload}
Copy a file from your computer to a host system.

@explain{User name}
On most host systems, the first time you connect you
are asked to supply a one-word user name.  This can be
any combination of letters and numbers.

@explain{VT100}
Another terminal-emulation system.  Supported by many
communications program, it is the most common one in
use on the Net.  VT102 is a newer version.


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``It's is not, it isn't ain't, and it's it's, not its, if you mean it is.
If you don't, it's its.  Then too, it's hers.  It isn't her's.
It isn't our's either.  It's ours, and likewise yours and theirs.''}
--- @b{Oxford University Press}, @fyi{Edpress News}
@end flushright
