@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: preface.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:25:08 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Upper node: Preface

By @emph{Adam Gaffin} @email{adamg@@world.std.com}@*
Senior Writer, Network World, Framingham, Mass.
@c Senior Reporter, Middlesex News, Framingham, Mass.

Welcome to the Internet! You're about to start a journey through a 
unique land without frontiers, a place that is everywhere at once -- even 
though it exists physically only as a series of electrical impulses.  
You'll be joining a growing community of millions of people around the 
world who use this global resource on a daily basis.

With this book, you will be able to use the Internet to:
@cindex Cyberspace
@cindex Global village
@cindex The Net

@itemize @bullet
@item
Stay in touch with friends, relatives and colleagues around the
world, at a fraction of the cost of phone calls or even air
mail.

@item
Discuss everything from archaeology to zoology with people in 
several different languages.    

@item
Tap into thousands of information databases and libraries 
worldwide.

@item
Retrieve any of thousands of documents, journals, books and
computer programs.

@item
Stay up to date with wire-service news and sports and 
with official weather reports.

@item
Play live, ``real time'' games with dozens of other people at once.
@end itemize

And you will have become the newest member of this ever growing
community. If you stay and contribute, the Net will be richer for it --
and so will you.

But it will take a sense of adventure, a willingness to learn and
an ability to take a deep breath every once in awhile.

Connecting to ``the Net'' today, takes something of a sense of 
adventure, a willingness to learn and an ability to take a deep breath 
every once in awhile. Visiting the Net today is a lot like journeying to 
a foreign country.  There are so many things to see and do, but 
everything at first will seem so, well, foreign.  

When you first arrive, you won't be able to read the street signs.
You'll get lost.  If you're unlucky, you may even run into some locals
who'd just as soon you went back to where you came from.  If this
weren't enough, the entire country is constantly under construction;
every day, it seems like there's something new for you to figure out.

Fortunately, most of the locals are actually friendly.  In fact, the 
Net actually has a rich tradition of helping out visitors and newcomers.  
Until very recently, there were few written guides for ordinary people, 
and the Net grew largely through an ``oral'' tradition in which the
old-timers helped the newcomers.

Here's where you take a deep breath.  Fortunately, most of the
natives are actually friendly.  In fact, the Net actually has a rich
tradition of helping out visitors and newcomers.  With few written
guides for ordinary people, the Net has grown in large part one person
at a time -- if somebody helps you learn your way around, it's almost
expected you'll repay the favor some day by helping somebody else.

So when you connect, don't be afraid to ask for help.  You'll be
surprised at how many people will lend a hand!

Without such folks, in fact, this guide would not be possible. My 
thanks to all the people who have written with suggestion, additions and 
corrections since the Big Dummy's Guide first appeared on the Internet in 
1993.

Special thanks go to the following people, who, whether they know it 
or not, provided particular help -- and to my loving wife Nancy:

Rhonda Chapman, Jim Cocks, Tom Czarnik, Christopher Davis, David 
DeSimone, Jeanne deVoto, Phil Eschallier, Nico Garcia, Jon Granrose, 
Joerg Heitkoetter, Joe Ilacqua, Jonathan Kamens, Peter Kaminski, Thomas 
A. Kreeger, Stanton McCandlish, Leanne Phillips, Nancy Reynolds, Helen 
Trillian Rose, Barry Shein, Jennifer ``Moira'' Smith, Gerard van der Leun 
and Scott Yanoff. 

If you have any suggestions or comments on how to make this guide 
better, I'd love to hear them.  You can reach me via e-mail at 
@email{adamg@@world.std.com}. 
 
Boston, Mass., January, 1994.


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
``Stop the murder!
Support dolphin-free networking.''
--- @b{Brendan Kehoe's .signature}

``On the Internet, no one knows you're a dog.''
--- @b{Adam's favorite one.}
@end flushright
