@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap7.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:55 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: FTP

@menu
* Tons of Files::			Just use it!
* Your Friend Archie::			Helps you to find what is where.
* Getting the Files::			And then you proceed as follows.
* Odd Letters::				Decoding File Endings.
* The Keyboard Cabal::			A word on FTP administrators.
* Some Interesting FTP Sites::		List of `ftpable' stuff from A-Z.
* ncftp::				Better than ftp.
* Project Gutenberg::			The online library.
* When things go wrong V::		Another part of the series.
* FTP FYI::				Suggested further reading.
@end menu


@c --------
@node Tons of Files
@section Tons of Files

Hundreds of systems connected to Internet have file libraries, or
archives, accessible to the public. Much of this consists of free or low-
cost shareware programs for virtually every make of computer.  If you 
want a different communications program for your IBM, or feel like 
playing a new game on your Amiga, you'll be able to get it from the Net. 

But there are also libraries of documents as well.  If you
want a copy of a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision, you can find it on
the Net.  Copies of historical documents, from the Magna Carta to the
Declaration of Independence are also yours for the asking, along with a
translation of a telegram from Lenin ordering the execution of
rebellious peasants.  You can also find song lyrics, poems, even
summaries of every ``Lost in Space'' episode ever made.  You can also find
extensive files detailing everything you could ever possibly want to know
about the Net itself.  First you'll see how to get these files; then
we'll show you where they're kept.

The commonest way to get these files is through the file transfer
protocol, or ftp.  As with telnet, not all systems that connect to the
Net have access to ftp.  However, if your system is one of these, you'll
be able to get many of these files through e-mail (@pxref{Advanced E-mail}).

Starting ftp is as easy as using telnet. At your host system's command
line, type

@example
ftp site.name
@end example
@findex ftp site.name

and hit enter, where ``site.name'' is the address of the ftp site you want
to reach.  One major difference between telnet and ftp is that it is
considered bad form to connect to most ftp sites during their business
hours (generally 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. local time).  This is because
transferring files across the network takes up considerable computing
power, which during the day is likely to be needed for whatever the
computer's main function is.  There are some ftp sites that are
accessible to the public 24 hours a day, though.  You'll find these noted
in the list of ftp sites (@pxref{Some Interesting FTP Sites}).

How do you find a file you want, though?


@c --------
@node Your Friend Archie
@section Your Friend Archie
Until a few years ago, this could be quite the pain -- there was
no master directory to tell you where a given file might be stored on
the Net. Who'd want to slog through hundreds of file libraries looking
for something?

@var{Alan Emtage}, @var{Bill Heelan} and @var{Peter Deutsch},
students at McGill University in Montreal, asked the same question.
Unlike the weather, though, they did something about it.
@cindex Emtage, Alan
@cindex Heelan, Bill
@cindex Deutsch, Peter

They created a database system, called archie, that would
periodically call up file libraries and basically find out what they had
available. In turn, anybody could dial into archie, type in a file name, and
see where on the Net it was available. Archie currently catalogs close to
1,000 file libraries around the world.
@cindex Archie

Today, there are three ways to ask archie to find a file for you:
through telnet, a ``client'' Archie program on your own host system or e-mail.
All three methods let you type in a full or partial file name and
will tell you where on the Net it's stored.
If you have access to telnet, you can telnet to one of the following
addresses: @host{archie.mcgill.ca}; @host{archie.sura.net};
@host{archie.unl.edu};
@host{archie.ans.net}; or @host{archie.rutgers.edu}.
If asked for a log-in name, type

@example
archie
@end example
@findex archie

and hit enter.

When you connect, the key command is prog, which you use in this
form:

@example
prog filename
@end example

followed by enter, where ``filename'' is the program or file you're
looking for. If you're unsure of a file's complete name, try typing in
part of the name. For example, @file{PKZIP} will work as well as
@file{PKZIP204.EXE}.  The system does not support DOS or Unix wildcards.
If you ask archie to look for @file{PKZIP*}, it will tell you it couldn't
find anything by that name.  One thing to keep in mind is that a file is
not necessarily the same as a program -- it could also be a document.
This means you can use archie to search for, say, everything online
related to the Beatles, as well as computer programs and graphics files.

A number of Net sites now have their own archie programs that
take your request for information and pass it onto the nearest archie
database -- ask your system administrator if s/he has it online. These 
``client'' programs seem to provide information a lot more quickly than the
actual archie itself!  If it is available, at your host system's command
line, type

@example
archie -s filename
@end example
@findex archie -s filename

where filename is the program or document you're looking for, and hit
enter.  The @samp{-s} tells the program to ignore case in a file name and lets
you search for partial matches. You might actually want to type it this
way:

@example
archie -s filename |more
@end example

which will stop the output every screen (handy if there are many sites
that carry the file you want).  Or you could open a file on your computer
with your text-logging function.

The third way, for people without access to either of the above, is e-mail.

Send a message to @email{archie@@quiche.cs.mcgill.ca}. You can leave the
subject line blank.  Inside the message, type

@example
prog filename
@end example

where filename is the file you're looking for.  You can ask archie to
look up several programs by putting their names on the same ``prog'' line, 
like this:

@example
prog file1 file2 file3
@end example

Within a few hours, archie will write back with a list of the
appropriate sites.

In all three cases, if there is a system that has your file,
you'll get a response that looks something like this:

@example
@cartouche
Host sumex-aim.stanford.edu

Location: /info-mac/comm
FILE -rw-r--r--     258256  Feb 15 17:07  zterm-09.hqx
Location: /info-mac/misc
FILE -rw-r--r--       7490  Sep 12 1991   zterm-sys7-color-icons.hqx
@end cartouche
@end example


Chances are, you will get a number of similar looking responses
for each program.  The ``Host'' is the system that has the file.  The
``Location'' tells you which directory to look in when you connect to
that system.  Ignore the funny-looking collections of r's and hyphens
for now.  After them come the size of the file or directory listing
in bytes, the date it was uploaded, and the name of the file.

Now you want to get that file.


@c --------
@node Getting the Files
@section Getting the Files

Assuming your host site does have ftp, you connect in a similar
fashion to telnet, by typing:

@example
ftp sumex-aim.stanford.edu
@end example

(or the name of whichever site you want to reach). Hit enter.  If the
connection works, you'll see this:

@example
@cartouche
Connected to sumex-aim.stanford.edu.
220 SUMEX-AIM FTP server (Version 4.196 Mon Jan 13 13:52:23 PST 1992) ready.
Name (sumex-aim.stanford.edu:adamg):
@end cartouche
@end example

If nothing happens after a minute or so, hit control-C to return
to your host system's command line.  But if it has worked, type

@example
anonymous
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see a lot of references on the Net to
``anonymous ftp.'' This is how it gets its name -- you don't really have
to tell the library site what your name is. The reason is that these
sites are set up so that anybody can gain access to certain public
files, while letting people with accounts on the sites to log on and
access their own personal files.  Next, you'll be asked for your 
password.  As a password, use your e-mail address.  This will then come
up:

@example
@cartouche
230 Guest connection accepted. Restrictions apply.
Remote system type is UNIX.
Using binary mode to transfer files.
ftp>
@end cartouche
@end example

Now type

@example
ls -l
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see something awful like this:

@example
@cartouche
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for /bin/ls.
total 2636
-rw-rw-r--  1 0        31           4444 Mar  3 11:34 README.POSTING
dr-xr-xr-x  2 0        1             512 Nov  8 11:06 bin
-rw-r--r--  1 0        0        11030960 Apr  2 14:06 core
dr--r--r--  2 0        1             512 Nov  8 11:06 etc
drwxrwsr-x  5 13       22            512 Mar 19 12:27 imap
drwxr-xr-x 25 1016     31            512 Apr  4 02:15 info-mac
drwxr-x---  2 0        31           1024 Apr  5 15:38 pid
drwxrwsr-x 13 0        20           1024 Mar 27 14:03 pub
drwxr-xr-x  2 1077     20            512 Feb  6  1989 tmycin
226 Transfer complete.
ftp>
@end cartouche
@end example

Ack! Let's decipher this Rosetta Stone.
@cindex Rosetta Stone

First, ls is the ftp command for displaying a directory (you can
actually use dir as well, but if you're used to MS-DOS, this could lead
to confusion when you try to use dir on your host system, where it won't
work, so it's probably better to just remember to always use ls for a
directory while online).

The very first letter on each line tells you whether the listing is
for a directory or a file. If the first letter is a @samp{d}, or an @samp{l},
it's a directory. Otherwise, it's a file.

The rest of that weird set of letters and dashes consist of ``flags''
that tell the ftp site who can look at, change or delete the file. You
can safely ignore it. You can also ignore the rest of the line until you
get to the second number, the one just before the date. This tells you
how large the file is, in bytes. If the line is for a directory, the
number gives you a rough indication of how many items are in that
directory  -- a directory listing of 512 bytes is relatively small. Next
comes the date the file or directory was uploaded, followed (finally!) by
its name.

Notice the @file{README.POSTING} file up at the top of the directory. Most
archive sites have a ``read me'' document, which usually contains some
basic information about the site, its resources and how to use them.
Let's get this file, both for the information in it and to see how to
transfer files from there to here. At the @samp{ftp>} prompt, type

@example
get README.POSTING
@end example
@cindex README

and hit enter. Note that ftp sites are no different from Unix sites in
general: they are case-sensitive. You'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for README.POSTING (4444 bytes).
226 Transfer complete. 4444 bytes received in 1.177 seconds (3.8 Kbytes/s)
@end cartouche
@end example

And that's it! The file is now located in your home directory on your host
system, from which you can now download it to your own computer. The
simple @samp{get} command is the key to transferring a file from an archive
site to your host system.
@findex FTP, get

@ignore
If the first letter on the line starts with a @samp{d}, then that is a
directory you can enter to look for more files.  If it starts with an
@samp{r}, then it's a file you can get.  The next item of interest is the
fifth column, which tells you how large the item is in bytes.  That's
followed by the date and time it was loaded to the archive, followed,
finally, by its name.   Many sites provide a @file{README} file that lists
simple instructions and available files.  Some sites use files named
@file{Index} or @file{INDEX} or something similar.
@end ignore

If you want to download more than one file at a time (say a series
of documents), use @samp{mget} instead of @samp{get}; for example:
@findex FTP, mget

@example
mget *.txt
@end example

This will transfer copies of every file ending with @file{.txt} in the given
directory.  Before each file is copied, you'll be asked if you're sure
you want it.  Despite this, mget could still save you considerable
time -- you won't have to type in every single file name. If you want to
save even more time, and are sure you really want @emph{all} of the
given files, type @samp{prompt}
@findex FTP, prompt
before you do the mget command. This will turn off the prompt, and all 
the files will be zapped right into your home directory.

There is one other command to keep in mind.  If you want to get a
copy of a computer program, type

@example
bin
@end example
@findex FTP, bin
@findex FTP, binary

and hit enter.  This tells the ftp site and your host site that you are
sending a binary file, i.e., a program.  Most ftp sites now use binary
format as a default, but it's a good idea to do this in case you've
connected to one of the few that doesn't.

To switch to a directory, type

@example
cd directory-name
@end example
@findex FTP, cd

(substituting the name of the directory you want to access) and hit
enter. Type

@example
ls
@end example
@findex FTP, ls
@findex FTP, dir

and hit enter to get the file listing for that particular directory.
To move back up the directory tree, type

@example
cd ..
@end example

(note the space between the d and the first period) and hit enter.  Or
you could type

@example
cdup
@end example
@findex FTP, cdup

and hit enter.  Keep doing this until you get to the directory of
interest.  Alternately, if you already know the directory path of the
file you want (from our friend archie), after you connect, you could
simply type

@example
get directory/subdirectory/filename
@end example

On many sites, files meant for public consumption are in the pub
or public directory; sometimes you'll see an info directory.

Almost every site has a bin directory, which at first glance
sounds like a bin in which interesting stuff might be dumped.  But it
actually stands for ``binary'' and is simply a place for the system
administrator to store the programs that run the ftp system. Lost+found
is another directory that looks interesting but actually never has
anything of public interest in them.

Before, you saw how to use archie.  From our example, you can see
that some system administrators go a little berserk when naming files.
Fortunately, there's a way for you to rename the file as it's being
transferred. Using our archie example, you'd type

@example
get zterm-sys7-color-icons.hqx zterm.hqx
@end example

and hit enter.  Instead of having to deal constantly with a file called
@file{zterm-sys7-color-icons. hqx}, you'll now have one called, simply,
@file{zterm.hqx}.

Those last three letters bring up something else: Many program files
are compressed to save on space and transmission time.  In order to
actually use them, you'll have to use an un-compress program on them first.


@c --------
@node Odd Letters
@section Odd Letters -- Decoding File Endings
There are a wide variety of compression methods in use.  You can 
tell which method was used by the last one to three letters at the end of 
a file. Here are some of the more common ones and what you'll need to un-
compress the files they create (most of these decompression programs can 
all be located through archie).

@ftable @code
@item .txt
@itemx .TXT
By itself, this means the file is a document, rather than a
program.

@item .ps
@itemx .PS
A PostScript document (in Adobe's page description language).
You can print this file on any PostScript capable printer, or use a
previewer, like GNU project's GhostScript.
@cindex GhostScript
@cindex PostScript
@cindex Adobe, Inc.
@cindex GNU

@item .doc
@itemx .DOC
Is another common suffix for documents. No
de-compression is needed, unless it is followed by

@item .z
@findex pack
@findex unpack
A file compressed by the Unix @code{pack} utility.  It uses Huffman coding
(which minimizes redundancy) on each byte.  Type @samp{unpack filename.z} or
@samp{gunzip filename.z} to decompress it.  This suffix was also briefly used
to indicate gzip'ed files before @samp{.gz} was adopted.
However, some sites @emph{still} use this suffix for gzip'ed files, e.g.
the EFF's FTP-server, due to local set-ups.

@item .Z
@findex compress
@findex uncompress
@findex gunzip
@findex zcat
This is a Unix compression method.  To uncompress the file,
type @samp{uncompress filename.Z} or @samp{gunzip filename.Z}
and hit enter at your host system's command prompt. If it's a
text file, you can read it online by typing
@samp{zcat file.txt.Z |more}
at your host system's command line. There is a Macintosh
@file{u16.zip} is an MS-DOS program that will let you download 
such a file and uncompress it on your own computer. The
Macintosh equivalent program is called MacCompress (use
archie to find these).

@item .zip
@itemx .ZIP
These indicate the file has been compressed with a common
MS-DOS compression program, known as PKZIP (use archie to
find @file{PKZIP204.EXE}).  Many Unix systems will let you un-ZIP
a file with a program called, well, unzip.
@findex PKZIP

@item .gz
@findex gzip
@findex gunzip
The GNU project's compression format. A variant of the PKZIP
format. Use @samp{gunzip filename.gz} to uncompress.
@cindex GNU

@item .zoo
@itemx .ZOO
A Unix, VAX and MS-DOS format. Requires the use of a program
called zoo to uncompress.
@findex ZOO

@item .Hqx
@itemx .hqx
A Macintosh format that needs BinHex for de-coding.
@findex BinHex

@item .shar
@itemx .Shar
A Unix format. Use unshar.
@findex shar
@findex unshar

@item .tar
Another Unix format, often used to glue several related
files and/or complete directory trees into one big file.
Use the @samp{tar} command.  Often, a ``tarred'' file
will also be compressed with the @samp{.Z}/@samp{.gz} method, so you first have
to use @samp{uncompress}/@samp{gunzip} and then @samp{tar}.
@findex tar
@findex tar cvf
@findex tar xvf

@item .TAZ
@item .TGZ
Sometimes used for compressed tar archives @file{.tar.Z}, that are
stored on ``3 letter suffix only systems'' (aka MS-DOS).

@item .sit
@item .Sit
A Macintosh format, requires StuffIt.
@findex StuffIt

@item .ARC
A DOS format that requires the use of ARC or ARCE.
@findex ARC
@findex ARCE

@item .LZH
Another DOS compression format; requires the use of LHARC.
@findex LHARC

@item .lz
@itemx .lha
The Amiga variant of LHARC. It's the most common Amiga archiving method,
and made with the program @code{lha} or @code{lz}.
@findex lha
@findex lz
@end ftable

A few last words of caution: Check the size of a file before you get 
it. The Net moves data at phenomenal rates of speed.  But that 500,000-byte
file that gets transferred to your host system in a few seconds 
could take more than an hour or two to download to your computer if 
you're using a 2400-baud modem.  Your host system may also have limits on 
the amount of bytes you can store online at any one time.  Also, although 
it is really extremely unlikely you will ever get a file infected with a 
virus, if you plan to do much downloading over the Net, you'd be wise to 
invest in a good anti-viral program, just in case.
@cindex Modem, 2400 baud


@c --------
@node The Keyboard Cabal
@section The Keyboard Cabal

System administrators are like everybody else -- they try to make
things easier for themselves.  And when you sit in front of a keyboard
all day, that can mean trying everything possible to reduce the number
of keys you actually have to hit each day.

Unfortunately, that can make it difficult for the rest of us.

You've already read about @file{bin} and @file{lost+found} directories,
@file{etc} is 
another seemingly interesting directory that turns out to be another 
place to store files used by the ftp site itself.  Again, nothing of any
real interest.

Then, once you get into the actual file libraries, you'll find that
in many cases, files will have such non-descriptive names as
@file{V1.1-AK.TXT}.
The best known example is probably a set of several hundred
files known as RFCs, which provide the basic technical and
organizational information on which much of the Internet is built.
These files can be found on many ftp sites, but always in a form such as
@file{RFC101.TXT}, @file{RFC102.TXT} and so on, with no clue whatsoever
as to what information they contain.

Fortunately, almost all ftp sites have a ``Rosetta Stone'' to help
you decipher these names.  Most will have a file named @file{README} (or some
variant) that gives basic information about the system.  Then, most
directories will either have a similar @file{README} file or will have an index
that does give brief descriptions of each file.  These are usually the
first file in a directory and often are in the form @file{00INDEX.TXT}.  Use
the ftp command to get this file.  You can then scan it online or
download it to see which files you might be interested in.
@cindex Rosetta Stone

Another file you will frequently see is called @file{ls-lgR.Z}.  This contains
a listing of every file on the system, but without any descriptions (the
name comes from the Unix command @samp{ls -lgR}, which gives you a listing of all
the files in all your directories).  The @samp{.Z} at the end means the file has
been compressed, which means you will have to use a Unix un-compress command
before you can read the file.

And finally, we have those system administrators who almost seem to
delight in making things difficult -- the ones who take full advantage of
Unix's ability to create absurdly long file names.  On some FTP sites, you
will see file names as long as 80 characters or so, full of capital letters,
underscores and every other orthographic device that will make it almost
impossible for you to type the file name correctly when you try to get it.
Your secret weapon here is the mget command.  Just type mget, a space, and
the first five or six letters of the file name, followed by an asterisk, for
example:

@example
mget This_F*
@end example

The FTP site will ask you if you want to get the file that begins with that
name. If there are several files that start that way, you might have to
answer @samp{n} a few times, but it's still easier than trying to recreate a
ludicrously long file name.


@c --------
@node Some Interesting FTP Sites
@section Some Interesting FTP Sites
@menu
* Amiga::
* Atari::
* Books::
* Computer Ethics::
* Consumer::
* Cooking::
* Economics::
* Esperanto::
* Evolutionary Computation::
* FTP Addresses::
* Government (FTP)::
* History (FTP)::
* Hong Kong::
* Internet::
* Law::
* Libraries::
* Literature::
* Macintosh::
* Movie Reviews::
* MS-DOS::
* Music::
* Native Americans::
* Pets::
* Pictures::
* Photography::
* Religion (FTP)::
* Science Fiction::
* Sex::
* Shakespeare::
* Space (FTP)::
* TeX::
* TV::
* Travel::
* Usenet::
* Viruses::
* Weather (FTP)::
* X Windows::
@end menu

@c --------
What follows is a list of some interesting ftp sites, arranged by
category. With hundreds of ftp sites now on the Net, however, this list
barely scratches the surface of what is available.  Liberal use of archie
will help you find specific files.

The times listed for each site are in Eastern time and represent
the periods during which it is considered acceptable to connect.


@c --------
@node Amiga
@subsection Amiga
@host{ftp.uu.net}
Has Amiga programs in the @file{systems/amiga} directory.
Available 24 hours.

@host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}
Look in the @file{pub/aminet} directory.
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node Atari
@subsection Atari
@host{atari.archive.umich.edu}
Find almost all the Atari files you'll ever
need, in the @file{atari} directory.
7 p.m. - 7 a.m.


@c --------
@node Books
@subsection Books
@host{rtfm.mit.edu}
The @file{pub/usenet/rec.arts.books} directory has
reading lists for various authors as well as lists of recommended
bookstores in different cities.  Unfortunately, this site uses incredibly
long file names -- so long they may scroll off the end of your screen if
you are using an MS-DOS or certain other computers.  Even if you want
just one of the files, it probably makes more sense to use mget than get.
This way, you will be asked on each file whether you want to get it;
otherwise you may wind up frustrated because the system will keep telling
you the file you want doesn't exist (since you may miss the end of its
name due to the scrolling problem).
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Computer Ethics
@subsection Computer Ethics
@host{ftp.eff.org}
The home of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  Use cd
to get to the pub directory and then look in the EFF, SJG and CPSR
directories for documents on the EFF itself and various issues related to
the Net, ethics and the law.
Available 24 hours.
@cindex EFF, Electronic Frontier Foundation
@cindex SJG
@cindex CPSR, Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility


@c --------
@node Consumer
@subsection Consumer
@host{rtfm.mit.edu}
The @file{pub/usenet/misc.consumers} directory has
documents related to credit.  The @file{pub/usenet/rec.travel.air} directory
will tell you how to deal with airline reservation clerks, find the best
prices on seats, etc.  See under Books for a caveat in using this ftp
site. 6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Cooking
@subsection Cooking
@host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}
Look for recipes and recipe directories in the
@file{usenet/rec.food.cooking/ recipes} directory.

@host{gatekeeper.dec.com}
Recipes are in the @file{pub/recipes} directory.


@c --------
@node Economics
@subsection Economics
@host{neeedc.umesbs.maine.edu}
The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston uses 
this site (yes, there are three 'e's in ``neeedc'') to house all sorts of 
data on the New England economy.  Many files contain 20 years or more of 
information, usually in forms that are easily adaptable to spreadsheet or 
database files.  Look in the @file{frbb} directory.

@host{town.hall.org}
Look in the edgar directory for the beginnings of a 
system to distribute annual reports and other data publicly held 
companies are required to file with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  The @file{other/fed} directory holds various statistical files from 
the Federal Reserve Board.


@c --------
@node Esperanto
@subsection Esperanto
@host{ftp.stack.urc.tue.nl}
You'll find text files about the Esperanto artificial
language in the @file{pub/ esperanto} directory.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Evolutionary Computation
@subsection Evolutionary Computation
@cindex Evolutionary Computation
@cindex ENCORE
@cindex Computational Biology
@cindex Computational Intelligence
@host{lumpi.informatik.uni-dortmund.de}
If you're interested in one possible future of computation,
and also are interested in global optimization problems, evolutionary
biology and genetics,
you might want to take a look at this server. For an overview on
the field, you should get the file @file{pub/EA/docs/hhgtec-*.ps.gz},
aka @fyi{The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to Evolutionary Computation}.
Available 24 hours.

@host{alife.santafe.edu}
Look at ENCORE, the EvolutioNary COmputation REpository network.
It's the most comprehensive collection of the field,
and has more online than you ever wanted to know on EC.
Get @file{/pub/USER-AREA/EC/CONTENTS} for the complete contents of this
location. @fyi{The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to Evolutionary Computation}
is available as @file{pub/USER-AREA/EC/FAQ/hhgtec.ps.gz}.
An introduction to ENCORE entitled @fyi{The Navigator's Guide to
ENCORE} is available in
@file{/pub/USER-AREA/EC/handbook}.
Mirrors (so-called EClairs) exist
in the USA at the California Institute of Technology (CalTech)
@cindex CalTech
@host{ftp.krl.caltech.edu} @file{/pub/EC};
in Asia at the Chinese University of Hong Kong
@cindex Hong Kong
@host{ftp.cs.cuhk.hk} @file{/pub/EC};
and Europe at the University of Warwick, UK
@host{ftp.dcs.warwick.ac.uk} @file{/pub/mirrors/EC}
@cindex Warwick, UK
and
@host{ftp.germany.eu.net} @file{/pub/research/softcomp/EC}
@cindex Dortmund, Germany
@cindex EClair
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node FTP Addresses
@subsection FTP Addresses
@host{iraun1.ira.uka.de}
Run by the computer-science department of the
University of Karlsruhe in Germany, this site offers lists of
anonymous-FTP sites both internationally
(in the @file{anon.ftp.sites} directory)
and in Germany (in @file{anon.ftp.sites.de}).
12 p.m. to 2 a.m.

@host{ftp.netcom.com}
The @file{pub/profiles} directory has lists of ftp sites.


@c --------
@node Government (FTP)
@subsection Government
@host{ncsuvm.cc.ncsu.edu}
The @file{SENATE} directory contains bibliographic
records of U.S. Senate hearings and documents for the past several
Congresses.  Get the file @file{README.DOS9111}, which will explain the
cryptic file names.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@cindex US, Senate

@host{info.umd.edu}
The @file{info/Government/US/Whitehouse} directory has copies
of press releases and other documents from the Clinton administration.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.

(@pxref{Law})
@cindex Clinton, B.
@cindex US, Whitehouse

@host{nptn.org}
The General Accounting Office (GAO) is the investigative wing of
Congress.  The @file{pub/e.texts/gao.reports} directory represents an experiment
by the agency to use ftp to distribute its reports.
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node History (FTP)
@subsection History
@host{nptn.org}
This site has a large, growing collecting of text files.
In the @file{pub/e.texts/freedom. shrine} directory, you'll find copies of
important historical documents, from the Magna Carta to the Declaration
of Independence and the Emancipation Proclamation.
Available 24 hours.
@cindex Magna Carta
@cindex Declaration of Independence
@cindex Emancipation Proclamation

@host{leginfo.public.ca.gov}
This is a repository of legislative 
calendars, bills and other information related to state government in 
California.
Available 24 hours.

@host{whitehouse.gov}
Look for copies of presidential position papers, 
transcripts of press conferences and related information here.
Available 24 hours.

@host{ra.msstate.edu}
Mississippi State maintains an eclectic database of 
historical documents, detailing everything from Attila's battle strategy
to songs of soldiers in Vietnam, in the @samp{docs/history} directory.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@cindex Attila
@cindex Vietnam

@host{ftp.loc.gov}
The Library of Congress has acquired numerous
documents from the former Soviet government and has translated many of
them into English.  In the @file{pub/soviet.archive/text. english} directory,
you'll find everything from  telegrams from Lenin ordering the death of
peasants to Khrushchev's response to Kennedy during the Cuban missile crisis.
The @file{README} file in the @file{pub/soviet.archive} directory provides an
index to the documents.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@cindex Lenin
@cindex Khrushchev
@cindex Kennedy


@c --------
@node Hong Kong
@subsection Hong Kong
@host{nok.lcs.mit.edu}
GIF pictures of Hong Kong pop stars, buildings
and vistas are available in the @file{pub/hongkong/HKPA} directory.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@cindex Hong Kong
@cindex GIF


@c --------
@node Internet
@subsection Internet
@host{ftp.eff.org}
The @file{pub/Net_info} directory has a number of sub-directories
containing various Internet resources guides and information 
files, including the latest online version of @fyi{EFF's Guide
to the Internet}. 
Available 24 hours.

@host{nic.ddn.mil}
The @file{internet-drafts} directory contains information about the
Internet, while the @file{scc} directory holds network security bulletins.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Law
@subsection Law
@host{info.umd.edu}
U.S. Supreme Court decisions from 1989 to the present
are stored in the @file{info/Government/US/SupremeCt} directory.
Each term has a separate directory (for example, @file{term1992}).
Get the @file{README} and @file{Index} files to help decipher the case
numbers.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.

@host{ftp.uu.net}
Supreme Court decisions are in the court-opinions
directory.  You'll want to get the index file, which tells you which file
numbers go with which file names.  The decisions come in Word Perfect and
Atex format only.
Available 24 hours a day.
@cindex Word Perfect
@cindex Atex


@c --------
@node Libraries
@subsection Libraries
@host{ftp.unt.edu}
The library directory contains numerous lists of
libraries with computerized card catalogs accessible through the Net.


@c --------
@node Literature
@subsection Literature
@host{mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu}
Project Gutenberg is an effort to translate 
paper texts into electronic form.  Already available are more than 100 
titles, from works by Lewis Carroll to Mark Twain; from @fyi{A Tale of Two 
Cities} to @fyi{Son of Tarzan}.  Look in the @file{/etext/etext92} and 
@file{/etext/etext93} directories.
6 p.m. - 9 a.m.
@cindex Lewis Carroll
@cindex Mark Twain

@host{nptn.org}
In the @file{pub/e.texts/gutenberg/etext91} and @file{etext92}
directories, you can get copies of Aesop's Fables, works by Lewis Carroll
and other works of literature, as well as the Book of Mormon.
Available 24 hours.
@cindex Aesop
@cindex Lewis Carroll
@cindex Book of Mormon

@host{world.std.com}
The @file{obi} directory has everything from online fables
to accounts of Hiroshima survivors.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@cindex Hiroshima


@c --------
@node Macintosh
@subsection Macintosh
@host{sumex-aim.stanford.edu}
This is the premier site for Macintosh
software.  After you log in, switch to the info-mac directory, which will
bring up a long series of sub-directories of virtually every free and
shareware Mac program you could ever want.
9 p.m. - 9 a.m.
@cindex Macintosh software

@host{ftp.uu.net}
You'll find lots of Macintosh programs in the 
@file{systems/mac/simtel20} directory. 
Available 24 hours a day.


@c --------
@node Movie Reviews
@subsection Movie Reviews
@host{lcs.mit.edu}
Look in the @file{movie-reviews} directory.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.

@ignore
@host{world.std.com}
The @file{periodicals/Middlesex-News/movies} directory
has reviews written by the staff of the Middlesex News in Framingham, Mass.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node MS-DOS
@subsection MS-DOS
@host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}
This carries one of the world's largest
collections of MS-DOS software. The files are actually copied, or
``mirrored''  from a computer at the U.S. Army's White Sands Missile Range 
(which uses ftp software that is totally incomprehensible).  It also
carries large collections of Macintosh, Windows, Atari, Amiga, Unix, OS9,
CP/M and Apple II software.  Look in the mirrors and systems directories.
The @file{gif} directory contains a large number of GIF graphics images.
Accessible 24 hours.
@cindex CP/M software
@cindex Apple II software
@cindex Macintosh software
@cindex Microsoft Windows
@cindex Atari software
@cindex Amiga software
@cindex GIF
@cindex OS9 software
@cindex Mirror site

@host{ftp.uu.net}
Look for MS-DOS programs and files in the 
@file{systems/msdos/simtel20} directory.
Available 24 hours a day.


@c --------
@node Music
@subsection Music
@host{cs.uwp.edu}
The @file{pub/music} directory has everything from lyrics of
contemporary songs to recommended CDs of baroque music. It's a little
different - and easier to navigate - than other ftp sites.  File and
directory names are on the left, while on the right, you'll find a brief
description of the file or directory, like this:

@example
@cartouche
SITES        1528  Other music-related FTP archive sites
classical/      -  (dir) Classical Buying Guide
database/       -  (dir) Music Database program
discog/         =  (dir) Discographies
faqs/           =  (dir) Music Frequently Asked questions files
folk/           -  (dir) Folk Music Files and pointers
guitar/         =  (dir) Guitar TAB files from ftp.nevada.edu
info/           =  (dir) rec.music.info archives
interviews/     -  (dir) Interviews with musicians/groups
lists/          =  (dir) Mailing lists archives
lyrics/         =  (dir) Lyrics Archives
misc/           -  (dir) Misc files that don't fit anywhere else
pictures/       =  (dir) GIFS, JPEGs, PBMs and more.
press/          -  (dir) Press Releases and misc articles
programs/       -  (dir) Misc music-related programs for various machines
releases/       =  (dir) Upcoming USA release listings
sounds/         =  (dir) Short sound samples
226 Transfer complete.
ftp>
@end cartouche
@end example

When you switch to a directory, don't include the @samp{/}.
7 p.m. - 7 a.m.

@host{potemkin.cs.pdx.edu}
The Bob Dylan archive.  Interviews, notes,
year-by-year accounts of his life and more, in the @file{pub/dylan} directory.
9 p.m. - 9 a.m.
@cindex Dylan, Bob

@host{ftp.nevada.edu}
Guitar chords for contemporary songs are in the
@file{pub/guitar} directory, in subdirectories organized by group or artist.


@c --------
@node Native Americans
@subsection Native Americans
@host{pines.hsu.edu}
Home of IndianNet, this site contains a variety 
of directories and files related to Indians and Eskimos, including 
federal census data, research reports and a tribal profiles database. 
Look in the pub and indian directories.
@cindex Native Americans
@cindex Indians
@cindex Eskimos
@cindex IndianNet


@c --------
@node Pets
@subsection Pets
@host{rtfm.mit.edu}
The @file{pub/usenet/rec.pets.dogs} and
@file{pub/usenet.rec.pets.cats} directories have documents on the respective
animals.  See under Books @ref{Books} for a caveat in using this ftp site.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Pictures
@subsection Pictures
@cindex GIF
@host{wuarchiv.wustl.edu}
The @file{graphics/gif} directory contains hundreds of
GIF photographic and drawing images, from cartoons to cars, space images
to pop stars.  These are arranged in a long series of subdirectories.


@c --------
@node Photography
@subsection Photography
@host{ftp.nevada.edu}
Photolog is an online digest of photography news, in
the @file{pub/photo} directory.


@c --------
@node Religion (FTP)
@subsection Religion
@cindex Bible
@cindex Koran
@host{nptn.org}
In the @file{pub/e.texts/religion} directory, you'll find
subdirectories for chapters and books of both the Bible and the Koran.
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node Science Fiction
@subsection Science Fiction
@cindex Lost in Space
@cindex Battlestar Galactica
@cindex Twilight Zone
@cindex The Prisoner
@cindex Doctor Who
@cindex Star Trek, original
@cindex Star Trek, Next Generation
@host{elbereth.rutgers.edu}
In the pub/sfl directory, you'll find plot
summaries for various science-fiction TV shows, including Star Trek (not
only the original and Next Generation shows, but the cartoon version as
well), Lost in Space, Battlestar Galactica, the Twilight Zone, the 
Prisoner and Doctor Who.  There are also lists of various things related
to science fiction and an online science-fiction fanzine.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Sex
@subsection Sex
@cindex Sex
@host{rtfm.mit.edu}
Look in the @file{pub/usenet/alt.sex} and
@file{pub/usenet/alt.sex.wizards} directories for documents related to all
facets of sex.  See under Books @ref{Books} for a caveat in using this ftp
site. 6 p.m. - 6 a.m.


@c --------
@node Shakespeare
@subsection Shakespeare
@cindex Shakespeare
@host{atari.archive.umich.edu}  The shakespeare directory contains most of
the Bard's works.  A number of other sites have his works as well, but
generally as one huge mega-file.  This site breaks them down into various 
categories (comedies, poetry, histories, etc.) so that you can download
individual plays or sonnets.


@c --------
@node Space (FTP)
@subsection Space
@cindex NASA
@cindex Space
@host{ames.arc.nasa.gov}
Stores text files about space and the history of
the NASA space program in the @file{pub/SPACE} subdirectory.
In the @file{pub/GIF}
and @file{pub/SPACE/GIF} directories, you'll find astronomy- and NASA-related
GIF files, including pictures of planets, satellites and other celestial
objects.
9 p.m. - 9 a.m.


@ignore
@c --------
@node Spain
@subsection Spain
@host{goya.dit.upm.es}
This Spanish site carries an updated list of
bulletin-board systems in Spain, as well as information about European
computer networks, in the @file{info/doc/net} subdirectory, mostly in Spanish.
The BBS list is @file{bbs.Z}, which means you will have to uncompress it
to read it.
Available 24 hours.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node TeX
@subsection @TeX{}
@cindex @TeX{}
@cindex CTAN
@host{ftp.dante.de},
@host{ftp.SHSU.edu}, or
@host{ftp.tex.ac.uk} in @file{/tex-archive/} or @file{/pub/tex/}
form the CTAN (comprehensive TeX archive network), that always has the latest
@TeX{} version (and everything that comes with it) available.
@ignore
They are continuously updated, i.e. they are ``mirrors'' of the primary
@TeX{} archive at Stanford University.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node TV
@subsection TV
@cindex TV
@host{coe.montana.edu}
The @file{pub/TV/Guides} directory has histories and other
information about dozens of TV shows.  Only two anonymous-ftp log-ins are
allowed at a time, so you might have to try more than once to get in.
8 p.m. - 8 a.m.

@host{ftp.cs.widener.edu}
The @file{pub/simpsons} directory has more files than
anybody could possibly need about Bart and family.  The @file{pub/strek}
directory has files about the original and Next Generation shows as well
as the movies.
See also under Science Fiction @ref{Science Fiction}.


@c --------
@node Travel
@subsection Travel
@host{nic.stolaf.edu}
Before you take that next overseas trip, you might
want to see whether the State Department has issued any kind of advisory
for the countries on your itinerary.  The advisories, which cover
everything from hurricane damage to civil war, are in the
@file{pub/travel-advisories/ advisories} directory, arranged by country.
7 p.m. - 7 a.m.


@c --------
@node Usenet
@subsection Usenet
@host{ftp.uu.net}
In the usenet directory, you'll find ``frequently asked
questions'' files, copied from @host{rtfm.mit.edu}. The communications
directory holds programs that let MS-DOS users connect directly with UUCP
sites. In the info directory, you'll find information about ftp and ftp
sites.  The inet directory contains information about Internet.
Available 24 hours.

@host{rtfm.mit.edu}
@cindex FAQ server
This site contains all available FAQs ``frequently
asked questions'' files for Usenet newsgroups in the @file{pub/usenet}
directory. For easy access, get the @file{index} file.
See under Books @ref{Books} for a caveat in using this ftp site.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m.

@host{ftp.uni-stuttgart.de}
@cindex FAQ server
In directory @file{/pub/doc/faq} resides a mirror of @host{rtfm.mit.edu}.
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node Viruses
@subsection Viruses
@host{ftp.unt.edu}
The antivirus directory has anti-virus programs for MS-DOS
and Macintosh computers.
7 p.m. - 7 a.m.
@cindex Computer, virus


@c --------
@node Weather (FTP)
@subsection Weather
@host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}
The @file{/multimedia/images/wx} directory contains GIF
weather images of North America.  Files are updated hourly and take this
general form: @file{CV100222}.  The first two letters tell the type of file: CV
means it is a visible-light photo taken by a weather satellite.  CI
images are similar, but use infrared light.  Both these are in black and
white.  Files that begin with SA are color radar maps of the U.S. that
show severe weather patterns but also fronts and temperatures in major
cities.  The numbers indicate the date and time (in GMT - five hours
ahead of EST) of the image: the first two numbers represent the month,
the next two the date, the last two the hour. The file @file{WXKEY.GIF}
explains the various symbols in SA files.
@cindex Weather


@c --------
@node X Windows
@subsection X Windows
@host{ftp.x.org}
The default server for MIT's X Window System. See under @file{/pub}.

@host{ftp.germany.eu.net}
Germany's backbone site located at the University of Dortmund, in the
European part of the Internet; the so-called EUnet.
It's also Germany's default server for X window system
releases, and also ``mirrors'' several important sites; e.g. in
@file{pub/packages/gnu} the GNU project's default server.
Furthermore you'll find ``mirrors'' of @file{386BSD}, @file{NetBSD},
and @file{Linux}.
@cindex Linux
@cindex 386BSD
@cindex NetBSD
@cindex EUnet
@cindex University of Dortmund
@cindex Backbone, Germany
@cindex X Windows
Available 24 hours.


@c --------
@node ncftp
@section ncftp -- Now You Tell Me!

If you're lucky, the people who run your host system or public-
access site have installed a program called ncftp, which takes some of 
the edges off the ftp process.

For starters, when you use ncftp instead of plain old ftp, you no 
longer have to worry about misspelling ``anonymous'' when you connect.  The 
program does it for you.  And once you're in, instead of getting line 
after line filled with dashes, x's, r's and d's, you only get listings of 
the files or directories themselves (if you're used to MS-DOS, the 
display you get will be very similar to that produced by the @samp{dir/w} 
command).  The program even creates a list of the ftp sites you've used 
most recently, so you can pick from that list, instead of trying to 
remember some incredibly complex ftp site name.

Launching the program, assuming your site has it, is easy.  At the 
command prompt, type

@example
ncftp sitename
@end example
@findex ncftp
@cindex FTP, ncftp

where ``sitename'' is the site you want to reach (alternately, you could 
type just ncftp and then use its open command).  Once connected, you can 
use the same ftp commands you've become used to, such as ls, get and 
mget.  Entries that end in a @samp{/} are directories to which you can switch 
with @samp{cd}; others are files you can get. A couple of useful ncftp commands 
include type, which lets you change the type of file transfer (from ASCII 
to binary for example) and size, which lets you see how large a file is 
before you get it, for example

@example
size declaration.txt
@end example

would tell you how large the declaration.txt file is before you get it.  
When you say @samp{bye} to disconnect from a site, ncftp remembers the last 
directory you were in, so that the next time you connect to the site, you 
are put back into that directory automatically. If you type @samp{help}
you'll get a list of files you can read to extend the power of the 
program even further.


@c --------
@node Project Gutenberg
@section  Project Gutenberg -- Electronic Books
Project Gutenberg, coordinated by Michael Hart, has a fairly 
ambitious goal: to make more than 10,000 books and other documents 
available electronically by the year 2001.  In 1993, the project uploaded 
an average of four books a month to its ftp sites; in 1994, they hope to 
double the pace.

Begun in 1991, the project already maintains a ``library'' of hundreds 
of books and stories, from Aesop's Fables to ``Through the Looking Glass'' 
available for the taking.  It also has a growing number of current-affairs
documents, such as the CIA's annual ``World Factbook'' almanac.

Besides @host{nptn.org}, Project Gutenberg texts can be retrieved from 
@host{mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu} in the etext directory.
@cindex Project Gutenberg


@c --------
@node When things go wrong V
@section When things go wrong:
@itemize @bullet
@item
You get a ``host unavailable'' message.

The ftp site is down for some reason.  Try again later.

@item
You get a ``host unknown'' message.

Check your spelling of the site name.

@item
You misspell ``anonymous'' when logging in and get a message
telling you a password is required for whatever you typed in.

Type something in, hit enter, type @samp{bye}, hit enter, and try again.
Alternately, try typing @samp{ftp} instead of @samp{anonymous}.
It will work on a surprising
number of sites. Or just use ncftp, if your site has it, and never worry 
about this again.
@end itemize


@c --------
@node FTP FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:

Liberal use of archie will help you find specific files or
documents.  For information on new or interesting ftp sites, try the
@news{comp.archives} newsgroup on Usenet.  You can also look in the
@news{comp.misc},
@news{comp.sources.wanted} or
@news{news.answers} newsgroups on Usenet for lists of ftp
sites posted every month by @var{Tom Czarnik} and @var{Jon Granrose}.

The @news{comp.archives} newsgroup carries news of new ftp sites and
interesting new files on existing sites.

In the @news{comp.virus} newsgroup on Usenet, look for postings that list
ftp sites carrying anti-viral software for Amiga, MS-DOS, Macintosh,
Atari and other computers.

The @news{comp.sys.ibm.pc.digest} and @news{comp.sys.mac.digest} newsgroups
provide information about new MS-DOS and Macintosh programs as well as
answers to questions from users of those computers.


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@iftex
@emph{``Welch ein Ort zum Pl@"undern!''
(What a place to plunder!)}
--- @b{General Gebhard Leberecht von Bl@"ucher}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@emph{``Welch ein Ort zum Pluendern!''
(What a place to plunder!)}
--- @b{General Gebhard Leberecht von Bluecher}
@end ifinfo
@end flushright
