@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap11.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:49 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: IRC and MUDs

@menu
* Talk::				Using the `talk' programs.
* Internet Relay Chat::			Online chats worldwide.
* IRC Commands::			List of IRC commands.
* IRC in Times of Crisis::		Something that *works*.
* MUDs::				Multi user games.
* Go::					And Chess, too!
* The other Side of the Coin::		Computer crime and responsibility.
* IRC and MUDs FYI::			Suggested further reading.
@end menu

@c --------
Many Net systems provide access to a series of interactive
services that let you hold live ``chats'' or play online games with
people around the world.  To find out if your host system offers
these, you can ask your system administrator or just try them -- if
nothing happens, then your system does not provide them.  In general,
if you can use telnet and ftp, chances are good you can use these
services as well.


@c --------
@node Talk
@section Talk

This is the Net equivalent of a telephone conversation and
requires that both you and the person you want to talk to have access
to this function and are online at the same time.  To use it, type

@example
talk user@@site.name
@end example
@findex talk
@findex talk user@@site.name

where @samp{user@@site.name} is the e-mail address of the other person.
She will see something like this on her screen: 

@example
talk: connection requested by yourname@@site.name
talk: respond with:  talk yourname@@site.name
@end example

To start the conversation, she should then type (at her host system's
command line):

@example
talk yourname@@site.name
@end example

where that is your e-mail address.  Both of you will then get a top
and bottom window on your screen.  She will see everything you type in
one window; you'll see everything she types in the other.  To
disconnect, hit control-C.

One note: Public-access sites that use Sun computers sometimes have
trouble with the talk program.  If talk does not work, try typing
@samp{otalk} or @samp{ntalk}
instead.  However, the party at the other end will have to have the same
program online for the connection to work.


@c --------
@node Internet Relay Chat
@section Internet Relay Chat

IRC is a program that lets you hold live keyboard conversations
with people around the world.  It's a lot like an international CB
radio  - it even uses ``channels.''  Type something on your computer and
it's instantly echoed around the world to whoever happens to be on the
same channel with you.  You can join in existing public group chats or
set up your own.  You can even create a private channel for yourself
and as few as one or two other people.  And just like on a CB radio,
you can give yourself a unique ``handle'' or nickname.

IRC currently links host systems in 20 different countries, from
Australia to Hong Kong to Israel.  Unfortunately, it's like telnet -- 
either your site has it or it doesn't.  If your host system does have it,  
Just type 
@cindex Internet Relay Chat
@cindex IRC

@example
irc
@end example
@findex IRC

and hit enter.  You'll get something like this:

@example
@cartouche
*** Connecting to port 6667 of server world.std.com
*** Welcome to the Internet Relay Network, adamg
*** Your host is world.std.com, running version 2.7.1e+4
*** You have new mail.
*** If you have not already done so, please read the new user
information with +/HELP NEWUSER
*** This server was created Sat Apr 18 1992 at 16:27:02 EDT
*** There are 364 users on 140 servers
*** 45 users have connection to the twilight zone
*** There are 124 channels.
*** I have 1 clients and 3 servers
MOTD - world.std.com Message of the Day -
MOTD - Be careful out there...
MOTD -
MOTD - ->Spike
* End of /MOTD command.

23:13 [1] adamg [Mail: 32] * type /help for help
@end cartouche
@end example

You are now in channel 0, the ``null'' channel, in which you can look
up various help files, but not much else. As you can see, IRC takes over
your entire screen.  The top of the screen is where messages will
appear.  The last line is where you type IRC commands and messages.  All
IRC commands begin with a @samp{/}.  The slash tells the computer you are about
to enter a command, rather than a message. To see what channels are
available, type

@example
/list
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll get something like this:

@example
@cartouche
*** Channel    Users  Topic
*** #Money     1      School CA$H (/msg SOS_AID help)
*** #Gone      1      ----->> Gone with the wind!!!  ------>>>>>
*** #mee       1
*** #eclipse   1
*** #hiya      2
*** #saigon    4
*** #screwed   3
*** #z         2
*** #comix     1      LET'S TALK 'BOUT COMIX!!!!!
*** #Drama     1
*** #RayTrace  1      Rendering to Reality and Back
*** #NeXT      1
*** #wicca     4      Mr. Potato Head, R. I. P.
*** #dde^mhe`  1      no'ng chay? mo*? ...ba` con o*iiii
*** #jgm       1
*** #ucd       1
*** #Maine     2
*** #Snuffland 1
*** #p/g!      4
*** #DragonSrv 1
@end cartouche
@end example

Because IRC allows for a large number of channels, the list might
scroll off your screen, so you might want to turn on your computer's
screen capture to capture the entire list.  Note that the channels
always have names, instead of numbers.  Each line in the listing tells
you the channel name, the number of people currently in it, and whether
there's a specific topic for it.  To switch to a particular channel,
type

@example
/join #channel
@end example

where @samp{#channel} is the channel name and hit enter.  Some ``public''
channels actually require an invitation from somebody already on it.  To
request an invitation, type

@example
/who #channel-name
@end example

where @samp{channel-name} is the name of the channel, and hit enter.  Then ask
someone with an @@ next to their name if you can join in.  Note that
whenever you enter a channel, you have to include the @samp{#}.  Choose one
with a number of users, so you can see IRC in action.

If it's a busy channel, as soon as you join it, the top of your
screen will quickly be filled with messages.  Each will start with a
person's IRC nickname, followed by his message.

It may seem awfully confusing at first.  There could be two or
three conversations going on at the same time and sometimes the
messages will come in so fast you'll wonder how you can read them all.

Eventually, though, you'll get into the rhythm of the channel and
things will begin to make more sense.  You might even want to add your
two cents (in fact, don't be surprised if a message to you shows up on
your screen right away; on some channels, newcomers are welcomed
immediately).  To enter a public message, simply type it on that bottom
line (the computer knows it's a message because you haven't started the
line with a slash) and hit enter.

Public messages have a user's nickname in brackets, like this:

@example
<tomg>
@end example

If you receive a private message from somebody, his name will be
between asterisks, like this:

@example
*tomg*
@end example

For more information on using IRC, see the IRC command box.  You
can find discussions about IRC in the @news{alt.irc} newsgroup.


@c --------
@node IRC Commands
@section IRC Commands

Note: Hit enter after each command.

@ftable @code
@item /away
When you're called away to put out a grease fire
in the kitchen, issue this command to let others know
you're still connected but just away from your terminal
or computer for awhile.

@item /help
Brings up a list of commands for which there is a help
file. You will get a ``topic:'' prompt.  Type in the
subject for which you want information and hit enter.
Hit enter by itself to exit help.

@item /invite
Asks another IRC to join you in a conversation.

@item /invite fleepo #hottub
would send a message to fleepo asking him to join you on
the #hottub channel.  The channel name is optional.

@item /join
Use this to switch to or create a particular channel,
like this: @samp{/join #hottub}

If one of these channels exists and is not a private
one, you will enter it.  Otherwise, you have just
created it. Note you have to use a @samp{#} as the first
character.

@item /list
This will give you a list of all available public
channels, their topics (if any) and the number of users
currently on them.  Hidden and private channels are not
shown.

@item /m name
Send a private message to that user.

@item /mode
This lets you determine who can join a channel you've
created.

@item /mode #channel +s
creates a secret channel.

@item /mode #channel +p
makes the channel private

@item /nick
This lets you change the name by which others see you.

@samp{/nick fleepo}
would change your name for the present session to
fleepo. People can still use /whois to find your e-mail
address.  If you try to enter a channel where somebody
else is already using that nickname, IRC will ask you to
select another name.

@item /query
This sets up a private conversation between you and
another IRC user.  To do this, type
@samp{/query nickname}

Every message you type after that will go only to that
person.  If she then types
@samp{/query nickname}
where nickname is yours, then you have established a
private conversation.  To exit this mode, type
@samp{/query}
by itself.  While in query mode, you and the other
person can continue to ``listen'' to the discussion on
whatever public channels you were on, although neither
of you will be able to respond to any of the messages
there.

@item /quit
Exit IRC.

@item /signoff
Exit IRC.

@item /summon
Asks somebody connected to a host system with IRC to
join you on IRC. You must use the person's entire e-mail
address.

@samp{/summon fleepo@@foo.bar.com}
would send a message to fleepo asking him to start IRC.
Usually not a good idea to just summon people unless you
know they're already amenable to the idea; otherwise you
may wind up annoying them no end. This command does not
work on all sites.

@item /topic
When you've started a new channel, use this command to let
others know what it's about.

@samp{/topic #Amiga}
would tell people who use /list that your channel is meant
for discussing Amiga computers.

@item /who <chan>
Shows you the e-mail address of people on a particular
channel.

@samp{/who #foo}
would show you the addresses of everybody on channel foo.

@samp{/who}
by itself shows you every e-mail address for every person
on IRC at the time, although be careful: on a busy night
you might get a list of 500 names!

@item /whois
Use this to get some information about a specific IRC
user or to see who is online.

@samp{/whois nickname}
will give you the e-mail address for the person using
that nickname.

@samp{/whois *}
will list everybody on every channel.

@item /whowas
Similar to @samp{/whois}; gives information for people who
recently signed off IRC.
@end ftable


@c --------
@node IRC in Times of Crisis
@section IRC in Times of Crisis
IRC has become a new medium for staying on top of really big 
breaking news.  In 1993, when Russian lawmakers barricaded themselves 
inside the parliament building, some enterprising Muscovites and a couple 
of Americans set up a ``news channel'' on IRC to relay first-person 
accounts direct from Moscow. The channel was set up to provide a 
continuous loop of information, much like all-news radio stations that 
cycle through the day's news every 20 minutes.  In 1994, Los Angeles 
residents set up a similar channel to relay information related to the 
Northridge earthquake.  In both cases, logs of the channels were archived 
somewhere on the Net, for those unable to ``tune in'' live.

How would you find such channels in the future?  Use the @samp{/list} 
command to scroll through the available channels.  If one has been set up 
to discuss a particular breaking event, chances are you'll see a brief 
description next to the channel name that will tell you that's the place 
to tune.


@c --------
@node MUDs
@section MUDs

Multiple-User Dimensions or Dungeons (MUDs) take IRC into the DUM
realm of fantasy.  MUDs are live, role-playing games in which you
enter assume a new identity and enter an alternate reality through
your keyboard.  As you explore this other world, through a series of
simple commands (such as ``look,'' ``go'' and ``take''), you'll run across
other users, who may engage you in a friendly discussion, enlist your
aid in some quest or try to kill you for no apparent reason.
@cindex MUD
@cindex Multiple User Dungeons
@cindex Multiple User Dimensions

Each MUD has its own personality and creator (or God) who was
willing to put in the long hours required to establish the particular
MUD's rules, laws of nature and information databases.  Some MUDs
stress the social aspects of online communications -- users frequently
gather online to chat and join together to build new structures or
even entire realms.  Others are closer to ``Dungeons and Dragons'' and
are filled with sorcerers, dragons and evil people out to keep you
from completing your quest -- through murder if necessary.
@cindex Dungeons and Dragons

Many MUDs (there are also related games known as MUCKs and MUSEs)
require you to apply in advance, through e-mail, for a character name
and password.  One that lets you look around first, though, is
HoloMuck at McGill University in Montreal.  The premise of this game
is that you arrive in the middle of Tanstaafl, a city on the planet
Holo.  You have to find a place to live (else you get thrown into the
homeless shelter) and then you can begin exploring.  Magic is allowed
on this world, but only outside the city limits.  Get bored with the
city and you can roam the rest of the world or even take a trip into
orbit (of course, all this takes money; you can either wait for your
weekly salary or take a trip to the city casino).  Once you become
familiar with the city and get your own character, you can even begin
erecting your own building (or subway line, or almost anything else).

To connect, telnet to
@host{hobbes.cs.mcgill.ca 5757}

When you connect, type

@example
connect guest guest
@end example

and hit enter.  This connects you to the ``guest'' account, which
has a password of ``guest.''
You'll see this:

@example
@cartouche
The Homeless Shelter(#22Rna)
You wake up in the town's Homeless Shelter, where vagrants are put for
protective holding.
Please don't sleep in public places-- there are plenty of
open apartments available.  Type 'apartments' to see how to get to an          
apartment building with open vacancies.                                      
There is a small sign on the wall here, with helpful information.
Type 'look sign' to read it.
The door is standing open for your return to respectable society.
Simply walk 'out' to the center.
@end cartouche
@end example

Of course, you want to join respectable society, but first you
want to see what that sign says.  So you type

@example
look sign
@end example

and hit enter, which brings up a list of some basic commands.  Then
you type

@example
out
@end example

followed by enter, which brings up this:

@example
@cartouche
You slip out the door, and head southeast...
Tanstaafl Center
This is the center of the beautiful town of Tanstaafl.
High Street runs north and south into residential areas, while
Main Street runs east and west into business districts.
SW: is Tanstaafl Towers.
Please claim an apartment... no sleeping in public!
SE: the Public Library offers both information and entertainment.
NW: is the Homeless Shelter, formerly the Town Jail.
NE: is Town Hall, site of several important services, including: Public
Message Board, Bureau of Land Management (with maps and regulations), and
other governmental/ bureaucratic help.
Down: Below a sign marked with both red and blue large letter 'U's, a
staircase leads into an underground subway passage.
(Feel free to 'look' in any direction for more information.)
[Obvious exits: launch, d, nw, se, w, e, n, s, ne, sw]
Contents:
Instructions for newcomers
Directional signpost
Founders' statue
@end cartouche
@end example

To see ``Instructions for newcomers'', type

@example
look Instructions for newcomers
@end example

and hit enter.  You could do the same for ``Directional signpost'' and
``Founders' statue.''  Then type

@example
SW
@end example

and enter to get to Tanstaafl Towers, the city housing complex, where
you have to claim an apartment (you may have to look around; many will
already be occupied).  And now it's off to explore Holo!  One command
you'll want to keep in mind is ``take.'' Periodically, you'll come
across items that, when you take them will confer certain abilities or
powers on you.  If you type

@example
help
@end example

and enter, you'll get a list of files you can read to learn more about
the MUD's commands.

The ``say'' command lets you talk to other players publicly. For
example,

@example
say Hey, I'm here!
@end example

would be broadcast to everybody else in the room with you.  If you
want to talk to just one particular person, use ``whisper'' instead of
``say.''

@example
whisper agora=Hey, I'm here!
@end example

would be heard only by agora.  Another way to communicate with
somebody regardless of where on the world they are is through your
pager.  If you suddenly see yours go off while visiting, chances are
it's a wizard checking to see if you need any help.  To read his
message, type
@cindex Wizard

@example
page
@end example

To send him a message, type

@example
page name=message
@end example

where name is the wizard's name (it'll be in the original message).

Other MUDs and MUCKs may have different commands, but generally
use the same basic idea of letting you navigate through relatively
simple English commands.

When you connect to a MUD, choose your password as carefully as
you would one for your host system; alas, there are MUD crackers who
enjoy trying to break into other people's MUD accounts.  And never,
never use the same password as the one you use on your host system!

MUDs can prove highly addicting.  ``The jury is still out on
whether MUDding is 'just a game'  or 'an extension of real life with
gamelike qualities','' says @var{Jennifer Smith}, an active MUD player who
wrote an FAQ on the subject.
@cindex Smith, Jennifer

She adds one caution: ``You shouldn't do anything that you
wouldn't do in real life, even if the world is a fantasy world.  The
important thing to remember is that it's the fantasy world of possibly
hundreds of people, and not just yours in  particular.  There's a
human being on the other side of each and every wire!  Always remember
that you may meet these other people some day,  and they may break
your nose.  People who treat others badly gradually build up bad
reputations and eventually receive the NO FUN Stamp of Disapproval.''


@c --------
@node Go
@section Go, Go, Go (and Chess, too)!
Fancy a good game of go or chess?  You no longer have to head for 
the nearest park with a board in hand.  The Internet has a couple of 
machines that let you engage people from around the world in your 
favorite board games.  Or, if you prefer, you can watch matches in 
progress.

To play go, 

@example
telnet hellspark.wharton.upenn.edu 6969
@end example

log on as: @samp{guest}
 
You'll find prompts to various online help files to get you started. 
For a chess match, 

@example                         
telnet news.panix.com 5000
@end example

log on as: @samp{guest}

You'll find prompts for online help files on the system, which lets you 
choose your skill level.


@c --------
@node The other Side of the Coin
@section The other Side of the Coin

All is not fun and games on the Net.  Like any community, the Net
has its share of obnoxious characters who seem to exist only to make
your life miserable (you've already met some of them in @ref{Global Watering Hole}).
There are people who seem to spend a bit more time on the Net than many 
would find healthy.  It also has its criminals.  @var{Clifford Stoll} writes in 
@fyi{The Cuckoo's Egg} how he tracked a team of German hackers who were 
breaking into U.S. computers and selling the information they found to 
the Soviets.  @var{Robert Morris}, a Cornell University student, was convicted 
of unleashing a ``worm'' program that effectively disabled several thousand 
computers connected to the Internet.  
@cindex Stoll, Clifford
@cindex Morris, Robert
@cindex Internet worm

Of more immediate concern to the average Net user are crackers
who seek to find other's passwords to break into Net systems and people
who infect programs on ftp sites with viruses.

There is a widely available program known as ``Crack'' that can
decipher user passwords composed of words that might be found in a
dictionary (this is why you shouldn't use such passwords).  Short of
that, there are the annoying types who take a special thrill in trying to 
make you miserable.  The best advice in dealing with them is to count to 
10 and then ignore them -- like juveniles everywhere, most of their fun 
comes in seeing how upset you can get. 

Meanwhile, two Cornell University students pleaded guilty in 1992 to
uploading virus-infected Macintosh programs to ftp sites.  If you plan
to try out large amounts of software from ftp sites, it might be wise to
download or buy a good anti-viral program.

But can law enforcement go too far in seeking out the criminals?
The Electronic Frontier Foundation was founded in large part in
response to a series of government raids against an alleged gang of
hackers.  The raids resulted in the near bankruptcy of one game
company never alleged to have had anything to do with the hackers,
when the government seized its computers and refused to give them
back.  The case against another alleged participant collapsed in court
when his attorney showed the ``proprietary'' and supposedly hacked
information he printed in an electronic newsletter was actually
available via an 800 number for about $13 -- from the phone company
from which that data was taken.


@c --------
@node IRC and MUDs FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:

You can find discussions about IRC in the @news{alt.irc} newsgroup.
@fyi{A Discussion on Computer Network Conferencing}, by @b{Darren Reed}
(May, 1992), provides a theoretical background on why conferencing
systems such as IRC are a Good Thing.  It's available through ftp at
@host{nic.ddn.mil} as file @file{rfc/rfc1324.txt}.
@cindex Good Thing
@cindex IRC
@cindex RFC
@cindex Reed, Darren

Every Friday, @b{Scott Goehring} posts a new list of  MUDs and related 
games and their telnet addresses in the newsgroup
@news{rec.games.mud.announce}. 
There are several other mud newsgroups related to specific types of MUDs, 
including @news{rec.games.mud.social}, @news{rec.games.mud.adventure}, 
@news{rec.games.mud.tiny}, @news{rec.games.mud.diku} and
@news{rec.games.mud.lp}.
@cindex Goehring, Scott

For a good overview of the impact on the Internet of the Morris
Worm, read @fyi{Virus Highlights Need for Improved Internet Management}, by
@b{the U.S. General Accounting Office} (June, 1989).  You can get a copy via
ftp from @host{cert.sei.cmu.edu} in the @file{pub/virus-l/docs}
directory.  It's listed as @file{gao_rpt}.

@b{Clifford Stoll} describes how the Internet works and how he tracked
a group of KGB-paid German hackers through it, in @fyi{The Cuckoo's Egg:
Tracking a Spy through the Maze of Computer Espionage}, Doubleday
(1989).

See also @b{Bruce Sterling}'s essay (@ref{Statement of Principle}).


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``@b{F}: When into a room I plunge, I
Sometimes find some VIOLET FUNGI.
Then I linger, darkly brooding
On the poison they're exuding.
@*
@b{H}: If a 'GOBLIN (HOB) waylays you,
Slice him up before he slays you.
Nothing makes you look a slob
Like running from a HOB'LIN (GOB).
@*
@b{K}: Cobalt's metal, hard and shining;
Cobol's wordy and confining;
KOBOLDS topple when you strike them;
Don't feel bad, it's hard to like them.
@*
@b{T}: One big monster, he called TROLL.
He don't rock, and he don't roll;
Drink no wine, and smoke no stogies.
He just Love To Eat Them Roguies.
@*
@b{U}: There's a U -- a Unicorn!
Run right up and rub its horn.
Look at all those points you're losing!
UMBER HULKS are so confusing.''}
--- @b{The Roguelet's ABC}
@end flushright
