@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap5.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:53 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Mailing Lists

@menu
* Internet Mailing Lists::
* Bitnet Lists::
@end menu

@c --------
@node Internet Mailing Lists
@section Internet Mailing Lists

Usenet is not the only forum on the Net.  Scores of ``mailing
lists''  represent another way to interact with other Net users.
Unlike Usenet messages,  which are stored in one central location on
your host system's computer, mailing-list messages are delivered right
to your e-mail box, unlike Usenet messages.
@cindex Mailing list
@cindex Bitnet

You have to ask for permission to join a mailing list.  Unlike
Usenet, where your message is distributed to the world, on a mailing
list, you send your messages to a central moderator, who either re-mails
it to the other people on the list or uses it to compile a periodic
``digest'' mailed to subscribers.
@cindex Digest
@cindex Mailing list, Moderator

Given the number of newsgroups, why would anybody bother with a
mailing list?

Even on Usenet, there are some topics that just might not generate
enough interest for a newsgroup; for example, the @i{Queen} list, which is
all about the late @var{Freddie Mercury}'s band; or the @i{Marillion & Fish}
list called ``Freaks.''
@cindex Queen
@cindex Marillion
@cindex Fish
@cindex Dick, Derek W.
@cindex Mercury, Freddie

And because a moderator decides who can participate, a mailing list
can offer a degree of freedom to speak one's mind (or not worry about
@b{net.weenies}) that is not necessarily possible on Usenet.  Several
groups offer anonymous postings -- only the moderator knows the real
names of people who contribute. Examples include 12Step, where people
enrolled in such programs as Alcoholics Anonymous can discuss their
experiences, and sappho, a list limited to gay and bisexual women.

You can find mailing addresses and descriptions of these lists
in the @news{news.announce.newusers} newsgroup with the subject of ``Publicly
Accessible Mailing Lists.''  Mailing lists now number in the hundreds,
so this posting is divided into three parts.

If you find a list to which you want to subscribe, send an e-mail
message to

@example
list-request@@address
@end example

where ``list'' is the name of the mailing list and ``address'' is the
moderator's e-mail address, asking to be added to the list.  Include
your full e-mail address just in case something happens to your
message's header along the way, and ask, if you're accepted, for the
address to mail messages to the list.


@c --------
@node Bitnet Lists
@section Bitnet Lists

As if Usenet and mailing lists were not enough, there are
Bitnet ``discussion groups'' or ``lists.''

Bitnet is an international network linking colleges and
universities, but it uses a different set of technical protocols for
distributing information than the Internet or Usenet.
It offers hundreds of discussion groups, comparable in scope to
Usenet newsgroups.

One of the major differences is the way messages are
distributed.  Bitnet messages are sent to your mailbox, just as with a
mailing list. However, where mailing lists are often maintained by a
person, all Bitnet discussion groups are automated -- you subscribe to
them through messages to a ``listserver'' computer.  This is a kind of
robot moderator that controls distribution of messages on the list.  In
many cases, it also maintains indexes and archives of past postings in a
given discussion group, which can be handy if you want to get up to
speed with a discussion or just search for some information related to
it.
@cindex Listserver

Many Bitnet discussion groups are now ``translated'' into Usenet
form and carried through Usenet in the @news{bit.listserv.*} hierarchy.  In
general, it's probably better to read messages through Usenet if you
can.  It saves some storage space on your host system's hard drives.

If 50 people subscribe to the same Bitnet list, that means 50
copies of each message get stored on the system; whereas if 50 people
read a Usenet message, that's still only one message that needs storage
on the system.  It can also save your sanity if the discussion group
generates large numbers of messages.  Think of opening your e-mailbox
one day to find 200 messages in it -- 199 of them from a discussion
group and one of them a ``real'' e-mail message that's important to you.

Subscribing and canceling subscriptions is done through an e-mail
message to the listserver computer.  For addressing, all
listservers are known as ``listserv'' (yep) at some Bitnet address.
This means you will have to add @samp{.bitnet} to the end of the
address, if it's in a form like this: @samp{listserv@@miamiu}. For example, if
you have an interest in environmental issues, you might want to
subscribe to the Econet discussion group.  To subscribe, send an e-mail
message to

@example
listserv@@miamiu.bitnet
@end example

Some Bitnet listservers are also connected to the Internet, so if you
see a listserver address ending in @samp{.edu}, you can e-mail the
listserver without adding @samp{.bitnet} to the end.

Always leave the ``Subject:'' line blank in a message to a
listserver.  Inside the message, you tell the listserver what you
want, with a series of simple commands:

@table @code
@item subscribe group @emph{Your Name}
To subscribe to a list, where @b{group}
is the list name and @emph{Your Name} is
your full name, for example:
@samp{subscribe econet Henry Fielding}
@cindex Mailing list, subscribe

@item unsubscribe group @emph{Your Name}
To discontinue a group, for example:
@samp{unsubscribe econet Henry Fielding}
@cindex Mailing list, unsubscribe

@item list global
This sends you a list of all available
Bitnet discussion groups.  But be careful -- the list is VERY long!

@item get refcard
Sends you a list of other commands you
can use with a listserver, such as
commands for retrieving past postings
from a discussion group.
@end table

Each of these commands goes on a separate line in your message
(and you can use one or all of them).  If you want to get a list of
all Bitnet discussion groups, send e-mail to

@example
listserv@@bitnic.educom.edu
@end example

Leave the ``Subject:'' line blank and use the list global command.

When you subscribe to a Bitnet group, there are two important
differences from Usenet.

First, when you want to post a message for others to read in the
discussion group, you send a message to the group name at its Bitnet
address.  Using Econet as an example, you would mail the message to:

@example
econet@@miamiu.bitnet
@end example

Note that this is different from the listserv address you used to
subscribe to the group to begin with.  Use the listserv address ONLY
to subscribe to or unsubscribe from a discussion group.  If you use the
discussion-group address to try to subscribe or unsubscribe, your message 
will go out to every other subscriber, many of whom will think unkind 
thoughts, which they may share with you in an e-mail message). 

The second difference relates to sending an e-mail message to the
author of a particular posting.  Usenet newsreaders such as rn and nn
let you do this with one key.  But if you hit your @samp{R} key to respond to
a discussion-group message, your message will go to the listserver,
and from there to everybody else on the list!  This can prove
embarrassing to you and annoying to others. To make sure your
message goes just to the person who wrote the posting, take down his
e-mail address from the posting and then compose a brand-new message.
Remember, also, that if you see an e-mail address like
@email{IZZY@@INDYVMS}, it's 
a Bitnet address. 

Two Bitnet lists will prove helpful for delving further into the
network.  NEW-LIST tells you the names of new discussion groups. To
subscribe, send a message to @email{listserv@@ndsuvm1.bitnet}:

@example
sub NEW-LIST Your Name
@end example

INFONETS is the place to go when you have questions about Bitnet.
It is also  first rate for help on questions about all major computer
networks and how to reach them.  To subscribe, send e-mail to
@email{info-nets-request@@think.com}:

@example
sub INFONETS Your Name
@end example

Both of these lists are also available on Usenet, the former as
@news{bit.listserv.new-list}; the latter as @news{bit.listserv.infonets}
(sometimes @news{bit.listserv.info-nets}).


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``It wasn't long before the invention of the mailing-list, an
ARPANET broadcasting technique in which an identical message could
be sent automatically to large number of network subscribers.
Interestingly, one of the first really big mailing-list was "SF-LOVERS",
for Science Fiction fans. Disscussing science fiction on the network
was not work-related and was frowned upon by many ARPANET computer
administrators, but this didn't stop it from happening.''}
--- @b{Bruce Sterling}, F&SF Science Column #5 @fyi{Internet}
@end flushright
