@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap12.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:49 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Education on the Net

@menu
* The Net in the Classroom::
* Some Specific Resources for Students and Teachers::
* Usenet and Bitnet in the Classroom::
* Education on the Net FYI::
@end menu


@c --------
@node The Net in the Classroom
@section The Net in the Classroom

If you're a teacher, you've probably already begun to see the
potential the Net has for use in the class.  Usenet, ftp and telnet have
tremendous educational potential, from keeping up with world events to
arranging international science experiments.

Because the Net now reaches so many countries and often stays
online even when the phones go down, you and your students can  ``tune
in'' to first-hand accounts during international conflicts.  Look at
your system's list of Usenet @news{soc.culture.*} groups to see if
there is one
about the country or region you're interested in.  Even in peacetime,
these newsgroups can be great places to find people from countries you
might be studying.

The biggest problem may be getting accounts for your students, if
you're not lucky enough to live within the local calling area of a
Free-Net system. Many colleges and universities, however, are willing
to discuss providing accounts for secondary students at little or no
cost.  Several states, including California and Texas, have
Internet-linked networks for teachers and students.

In addition, there are a number of resources on the Internet aimed
specifically at elementary and secondary students and teachers.  You
can use these to set up science experiments with classes in another
country, learn how to use computers in the classroom or keep up with the
latest advances in teaching everything from physics to physical
education.

Some of these resources are listed in the follwoing.

@c --------
@node Some Specific Resources for Students and Teachers
@section Some Specific Resources for Students and Teachers
@menu
* K12Net::
* AskERIC::
* SpaceMet::
* Kidsphere::
* Health-Ed::
* Knoxville News-Sentinel Online::
* Hemingway::
* MicroMUSE::
* NASA Spacelink::
* Newton::
* OERI::
* More Educational Resources::
@end menu

@c --------
@node K12Net
@subsection K12Net
Begun on the Fidonet hobbyist network, K12Net is now also
carried on many Usenet systems and provides a host of interesting and
valuable services.  These include international chat for students,
foreign-language discussions (for example, there are French and
German-only conference where American students can practice those languages
with students from Quebec and German).  There are also conferences aimed
at teachers of specific subjects, from physical education to physics.
The K12 network still has limited distribution, so ask your
system administrator if your system carries it.
@cindex K12Net
@cindex Fidonet

@c --------
@node AskERIC
@subsection AskERIC
Run by the Educational Resource and Information Center, 
AskERIC provides a way for educators, librarians and 
others interested in K-12 education to get more 
information about virtually everything.  The center 
maintains an e-mail address (@email{askeric@@ericir.syr.edu}) for 
questions and promises answers within 48 hours.  It also 
maintains a gopher site that contains digests of 
questions and answers, lesson plans in a variety of 
fields and other educationally related information.  The 
gopher address is @host{ericir.syr.edu}. 
@cindex AskERIC

@c --------
@node SpaceMet
@subsection SpaceMet
If your system doesn't carry K12, but has access to
telnet, you can reach it through SpaceMet Forum, a bulletin-board system
aimed at teachers and students that is run by the physics and astronomy
department at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.  The address
is @host{spacemet.phast.umass.edu}.  When you connect, hit escape once.
Like K12, SpaceMet Forum began as a Fidonet system, but has since
grown much larger.  Mort and Helen Sternheim, professors at the
university, started SpaceMet as a one-line bulletin-board system several
years ago to help bolster middle-school science education in nearby
towns.
@cindex SpaceMet

Today, there is a whole series of satellite SpaceMet BBSs in
western Massachusetts and SpaceMet itself is now linked to Fidonet and
Internet.

In addition to the K12 conferences, SpaceMet carries numerous
educationally oriented conferences.  It also has a large file library of
interest to educators and students, but be aware that getting files to
your site could be difficult and maybe even impossible.  Unlike most
other Internet sites, Spacemet does not use an ftp interface. The
Sternheims say ZMODEM sometimes works over the network, but don't count
on it.


@c --------
@node Kidsphere
@subsection Kidsphere
Kidsphere is a mailing list for elementary and secondary
teachers, who use it to arrange joint projects and discuss educational
telecommunications.  You will find news of new software, lists of
sites from which you can get computer-graphics pictures from various
NASA satellites and probes and other news of interest to modem-using
teachers.
@cindex NASA

To subscribe, send a request by e-mail to
@email{kidsphere-request@@vms.cis.pitt.edu}
or try @email{joinkids@@vms.cis.pitt.edu} and you will start
receiving messages within a couple of days.
To contribute to the discussion, send messages to
@email{kidsphere@@vms.cis.pitt.edu}.

KIDS is a spin-off of KIDSPHERE just for students who want to
contact students.  To subscribe, send a request to
@email{joinkids@@vms.cis.pitt.edu}, as above.  To contribute, send messages to
@email{kids@@vms.cist.pitt.edu}.


@c --------
@node Health-Ed
@subsection Health-Ed:
A mailing list for health educators.  Send a request to
@email{health-ed-request@@stjhmc.fidonet. org}.


@c --------
@node Knoxville News-Sentinel Online
@subsection Knoxville News-Sentinel Online
Using the newspaper in the electronic classroom.  This
gopher site lets students and teachers connect to
the newspaper, and provides resources for them derived
from the newsroom.  Use gopher to connect to
@host{gopher.opup.org}.
@cindex KNSO
@cindex Knoxville News-Sentinel Online
@cindex Newsroom


@c --------
@node Hemingway
@subsection Hemingway
PAPA is a mailing list about Hemingway and his work.
To get on the list, send a request to @email{dgross@@polyslo.calpoly.edu}.


@c --------
@node MicroMUSE
@subsection MicroMUSE
This is an online, futuristic city, built entirely by
participants (see chapter 11 for information on MUSEs
and MUDs in general).  Hundreds of students from all
over have participated in this educational exercise,
coordinated by MIT. Telnet to @host{michael.ai.mit.edu}.
Log on as @samp{guest} and then follow the prompts for more 
information. 
@cindex MicroMUSE


@c --------
@node NASA Spacelink
@subsection NASA Spacelink
This system, run by NASA in Huntsville, Ala.,
provides all sorts of reports and data about NASA, its history and its
various missions, past and present.  Telnet @host{spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov} or
128.158.13.250.

When you connect, you'll be given an overview of the system and
asked to register. The system maintains a large file library of GIF-format
space graphics, but note that you can't download these through
telnet. If you want to, you have to dial the system directly, at (205)
895-0028.  Many can be obtained through ftp from @host{ames.arc.nasa.gov},
however.
@cindex GIF


@c --------
@node Newton
@subsection Newton
Run by the Argonne National Laboratory.  It offers conferences for teachers
and students, including one called ``Ask a Scientist.''
Telnet: @host{newton.dep.anl.gov}.
Log in as: cocotext

You'll be asked to provide your name and address.  When you get the main
menu, hit @samp{4} for the various conferences.  The ``Ask a Scientist'' category
lets you ask questions of scientists in fields from biology to earth
science.  Other categories let you discuss teaching, sports and computer
networks.


@c --------
@node OERI
@subsection OERI
The U.S. Department of Education's Office of Educational 
Resources and Improvement runs a gopher system that 
provides numerous educational resources, information and 
statistics for teachers.  Use gopher to connect to
@host{gopher.ed.gov}.


@c --------
@node More Educational Resources
@subsection More Educational Resources
To get a list of ftp sites that carry astronomical images
in the GIF graphics format, use ftp to connect to @host{nic.funet.fi}. Switch
to the @file{/pub/astro/general} directory and get the file @file{astroftp.txt}.
Among the sites listed is @host{ames.arc.nasa.gov}, which carries images
taken by the Voyager and Galileo probes, among other pictures.


@c --------
@node Usenet and Bitnet in the Classroom
@section Usenet and Bitnet in the Classroom
There are numerous Usenet newsgroups of potential interest to
teachers and students (@pxref{Global Watering Hole}).

As you might expect, many are of a scientific bent. You can find
these by typing @samp{l sci.} in rn or using @samp{nngrep sci.} for nn.
There are now
close to 40, with subjects ranging from archaeology to economics (the
``dismal science,'' remember?) to astronomy to nanotechnology (the
construction of microscopically small machines).

One thing students will quickly learn from many of these groups:
science is not just dull, boring facts.  Science is argument and
standing your ground and making your case.  The Usenet @news{sci.*} groups
encourage critical thinking.

Beyond science, social-studies and history classes can keep busy
learning about other countries, through the @news{soc.culture.*} newsgroups.

Most of these newsgroups originated as ways for expatriates of a
given country to keep in touch with their homeland and its culture.  In
times of crisis, however, these groups often become places to
disseminate information from or into the country and to discuss what is
happening.  From Afghanistan to Yugoslavia, close to 50 countries are
now represented on Usenet.
To see which groups are available, use @samp{l soc.culture.} in rn or
@samp{nngrep soc.culture.} for nn.

One caveat:  Teachers might want to peruse particular newsgroups 
before setting their students loose in them.  Some have higher levels of 
flaming and blather than others.

Several ``talk'' newsgroups provide additional topical discussions,
but teachers should screen them first before recommending them to
students.  They range from @news{talk.abortion}, via
@news{talk.politics. guns} to
@news{talk.politics.space}, and @news{talk.environment}.
@cindex talk.*

There are also a number of Bitnet discussion groups of potential
interest to students and teachers.
@c See Chapter 4
@xref{Mailing Lists}
for information on
finding and subscribing to Bitnet discussion groups.  Some with an
educational orientation include:

@example
biopi-l     ksuvm.bitnet        Secondary biology education
chemed-l    uwf.bitnet          Chemistry education
dts-l       iubvm.bitnet        The Dead Teacher's Society list
phys-l      uwf.bitnet          Discussions for physics teachers
physhare    psuvm.bitnet        Where physics teachers share resources
scimath-l   psuvm.bitnet        Science and math education
@end example


@c --------
@node Education on the Net FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:
@b{Carl Erickson}
@email{erickson@@oak.mcs.gvsu.edu}
has written an interesting paper, entitled
@fyi{USENET as a Teaching Tool}, published in the Proceedings
of 24th, ACM Conference on Science and Education (CSE-2/93-IN).
@cindex Erickson, Carl

The August '93 issue of @fyi{Communications of the ACM} was wholly devoted to
the Internet and featured several interesting articles on the topics
discussed in the previous chapter (@pxref{Paperware, Journal Articles and Papers} for a list
of all articles in the ``Journal Articles & Papers'' section).


@c --------
@iftex
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``A fool's brain digests philosophy into folly, science into
superstition, and art into pedantry.  Hence University education.''}
--- @b{George Bernhard Shaw}

@emph{``Education is the process of casting false pearls before real swine.''}
--- @b{Irsin Edman}

@emph{``It is against the grain of modern education to teach children to program.
What fun is there in making plans, acquiring discipline in organizing thoughts,
devoting attention to detail, and learning to be self-critical?''}
--- @b{Alan Perlis}
@end flushright
