@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: chap6.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:54 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Telnet

@menu
* Mining the Net::			The Internet miner's guide.
* Library Catalogs::			Playing the electronic librarian.
* Some Interesting Telnet Sites::	Services to access by `telnet'.
* Telnet Bulletin-Board Systems::	BBSs by `telnet'.
* Putting the Finger on Someone::	How to finger at somebody.
* Finding Someone on the Net::		How to find somebody's address?
* When things go wrong IV::		Another part of the serial.
* Telnet FYI::				Suggested further reading.
@end menu

@c --------
@node Mining the Net
@section Mining the Net

Like any large community, cyberspace has its libraries, places you
can go to look up information or take out a good book.  Telnet is one of
your keys to these libraries.
@cindex Cyberspace
@cindex Telnet
@findex telnet

@emph{Telnet} is a program that lets you use the power of the Internet to
connect you to databases, library catalogs, and other information
resources around the world.  Want to see what the weather's like in
Vermont? Check on crop conditions in Azerbaijan? Get more information
about somebody whose name you've seen online? Telnet lets you do this,
and more.

Alas, there's a big ``but!''  Unlike the phone system, Internet is not
yet universal;  not everybody can use all of its services.  Almost all
colleges and universities on the Internet provide telnet access.   So do
all of the for-fee public-access systems listed in
@ref{Ready - Set}. But the 
Free-Net systems do not give you access to every telnet system.  And if 
you are using a public-access UUCP or Usenet site, you will not have 
access to telnet. The main reason for this is cost.  Connecting to the 
Internet can easily cost $1,000 or more for a leased, high-speed phone 
line. Some databases and file libraries can be queried by e-mail, 
however; we'll show you how to do that later on. In the meantime, the 
rest of this chapter assumes you are connected to a site with at least 
partial Internet access. 
@cindex The WELL
@cindex The World
@cindex Netcom
@cindex Free-Net

Most telnet sites are fairly easy to use and have online help systems.
Most also work best (and in some cases, only) with VT100 emulation.
Let's dive right in and try one.

At your host system's command line, type

@example
telnet access.usask.ca
@end example
@findex telnet

and hit enter.  That's all you have to do to connect to a telnet site!
In this case, you'll be connecting to a service known as Hytelnet, which
is a database of computerized library catalogs and other databases
available through telnet.  You should see something like this:
@cindex Hytelnet

@example
@cartouche
Trying 128.233.3.1 ...
Connected to access.usask.ca.
Escape character is '^]'.


Ultrix UNIX (access.usask.ca)

login:
@end cartouche
@end example


Every telnet site has two addresses -- one composed of words that
are easier for people to remember; the other a numerical address better
suited for computers.  The ``escape character'' is good to remember.  When
all else fails, hitting your control key and the @samp{]} key at the same time
will disconnect you and return you to your host system.  At the login
prompt, type

@example
hytelnet
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
Welcome to HYTELNET
version 6.2
...................

What is HYTELNET?         <WHATIS>     .     Up/Down arrows MOVE
Library catalogs          <SITES1>     .     Left/Right arrows SELECT
Other resources           <SITES2>     .     ? for HELP anytime
Help files for catalogs   <OP000>      .
Catalog interfaces        <SYS000>     .     m returns here
Internet Glossary         <GLOSSARY>   .     q quits
Telnet tips               <TELNET>     .
Telnet/TN3270 escape keys <ESCAPE.KEY> .
Key-stroke commands       <HELP.TXT>   .


........................
HYTELNET 6.2 was written by Peter Scott,
U of Saskatchewan Libraries, Saskatoon, Sask, Canada.  1992
Unix and VMS software by Earl Fogel, Computing Services, U of S 1992
@end cartouche
@end example

The first choice, ``<WHATIS>'' will be highlighted.  Use your down
and up arrows to move the cursor among the choices.  Hit enter when you
decide on one.  You'll get another menu, which in turn will bring up
text files telling you how to connect to sites and giving any special
commands or instructions you might need.  Hytelnet does have one quirk.
To move back to where you started (for example, from a sub-menu to a
main menu), hit the left-arrow key on your computer.

Play with the system.  You might want to turn on your computer's
screen-capture, or at the very least, get out a pen and paper. You're
bound to run across some interesting telnet services that you'll want to
try -- and you'll need their telnet ``addresses.''

As you move around Hytelnet, it may seem as if you haven't left
your host system -- telnet can work that quickly.  Occasionally, when
network loads are heavy, however, you will notice a delay between the
time you type a command or enter a request and the time the remote
service responds.

To disconnect from Hytelnet and return to your system, hit your q
key and enter.

Some telnet computers are set up so that you can only access them
through a specific ``port.''  In those cases, you'll always see a number
after their name, for example:  @host{india.colorado.edu 13}. It's important to
include that number, because otherwise, you may not get in.

In fact, try the above address. Type

@example
telnet india.colorado.edu 13
@end example

and hit enter.  You should see something like this:

@example
Trying 128.138.140.44 ...
@end example

Followed very quickly by this:

@example
@cartouche
telnet india.colorado.edu 13

Escape character is '^]'.
Sun Jan 17 14:11:41 1994
Connection closed by foreign host.
@end cartouche
@end example

What we want is the middle line, which tells you the exact
Mountain Standard Time, as determined by a government-run atomic clock
in Boulder, Colo.


@c --------
@node Library Catalogs
@section Library Catalogs

Several hundred libraries around the world, from the Snohomish 
Public Library in Washington State to the Library of Congress are now 
available to you through telnet. You can use Hytelnet to find their 
names, telnet addresses and use instructions. 

Why would you want to browse a library you can't physically get to?
Many libraries share books, so if yours doesn't have what you're looking
for, you can tell the librarian where he or she can get it.  Or if you live
in an area where the libraries are not yet online, you can use telnet to do
some basic bibliographic research before you head down to the local branch.

There are several different database programs in use by online
libraries.  Harvard's is one of the easier ones to use, so let's try it.

Telnet to @host{hollis.harvard.edu}.  When you connect, you'll see:

@example
@cartouche
*****************        H A R V A R D   U N I V E R S I T Y
*****************         OFFICE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
***    ***    ***
*** VE *** RI ***
***    ***    ***         HOLLIS    (Harvard OnLine LIbrary System)
 *****     *****
  **** TAS ****           HUBS      (Harvard University Basic Services)
    ***   ***
      *****               IU        (Information Utility)
       ***
                          CMS       (VM/CMS Timesharing Service)


** HOLLIS IS AVAILABLE WITHOUT ACCESS RESTRICTIONS **
Access to other applications is limited to individuals who have been
granted specific permission by an authorized person.

To select one of the applications above, type its name on the command
line followed by your user ID, and press RETURN.
** HOLLIS DOES NOT REQUIRE A USERID **

EXAMPLES:   HOLLIS (press RETURN)  or  HUBS userid (press RETURN)
===>
@end cartouche
@end example

Type

@example
hollis
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see several screens flash by quickly until finally the
system stops and you'll get this:

@example
@cartouche
WELCOME TO HOLLIS
(Harvard OnLine Library Information System)

To begin, type one of the 2-character database codes listed below:

HU      Union Catalog of the Harvard libraries
OW      Catalog of Older Widener materials
LG      Guide to Harvard Libraries and Computing Resources

AI      Expanded Academic Index (selective 1987-1988, full 1989-  )
LR      Legal Resource Index (1980-  )
PA      PAIS International (1985-  )

To change databases from any place in HOLLIS, type CHOOSE followed by a
2-character database code, as in:    CHOOSE HU

For general help in using HOLLIS, type HELP.   For HOLLIS news, type
HELP NEWS.   For HOLLIS hours of operation, type HELP HOURS.

ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND
@end cartouche
@end example

The first thing to notice is the name of the system: Hollis.
Librarians around the world seem to be inordinately found of cutesy,
anthropomorphized acronyms for their machines (not far from Harvard, the
librarians at Brandeis University came up with Library On-Line User
Information Service, or Louis; MIT has Barton).

If you want to do some general browsing, probably the best bet on the
Harvard system is to choose HU, which gets you access to their main
holdings, including those of its medical libraries.  Chose that, and you'll
see this:

@example
@cartouche
THE HARVARD UNIVERSITY LIBRARY UNION CATALOG

To begin a search, select a search option from the list below and type its
code on the command line.  Use either upper or lower case.

AU           Author search
TI           Title search
SU           Subject search
ME           Medical subject search
KEYWORD      Keyword search options
CALL         Call number search options
OTHER        Other search options

For information on the contents of the Union Catalog, type HELP.
To exit the Union Catalog, type QUIT.

A search can be entered on the COMMAND line of any screen.

ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND.
@end cartouche
@end example

Say you want to see if Harvard has shed the starchy legacy of the
Puritans, who founded the school.  Why not see if they have ``The Joy of
Sex'' somewhere in their stacks? Type

@example
TI Joy of Sex
@end example

and hit enter. This comes up:

@example
@cartouche
HU: YOUR SEARCH RETRIEVED NO ITEMS.  Enter new command or HELP.  You typed:
TI JOY OF SEX
***************************************************************************









ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONS: FIND                          START - search options          HELP
QUIT - exit database
COMMAND?
@end cartouche
@end example

Oh, well!  Do they have anything that mentions ``sex'' in the title?  Try
another TI search, but this time just: @samp{TI sex}.  You get:

@example
@cartouche
HU GUIDE: SUMMARY OF SEARCH RESULTS    2086 items retrieved by your search:
FIND TI SEX
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   1    SEX
   2    SEX A
 823    SEXA
 827    SEXBO
 831    SEXCE
 833    SEXDR
 834    SEXE
 879    SEXIE
 928    SEXJA
 929    SEXLE
 930    SEXO
 965    SEXPI
 968    SEXT
1280    SEXUA
2084    SEXWA
2085    SEXY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONS: INDEX (or I 5 etc) to see list of items         HELP
START - search options
REDO - edit search                              QUIT - exit database
COMMAND?
@end cartouche
@end example

If you want to get more information on the first line, type 1 and hit enter:

@example
@cartouche
HU INDEX: LIST OF ITEMS RETRIEVED      2086 items retrieved by your search:
FIND TI SEX
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEX
1 geddes patrick sir 1854 1932/ 1914  bks

SEX A Z
2 goldenson robert m/ 1987  bks

SEX ABUSE HYSTERIA SALEM WITCH TRIALS REVISITED
3 gardner richard a/ 1991  bks

SEX AETATES MUNDI ENGLISH AND IRISH
4 irish sex aetates mundi/ 1983  bks

SEX AFTER SIXTY A GUIDE FOR MEN AND WOMEN FOR THEIR LATER YEARS
5 butler robert n 1927/ 1976  bks


------------------------------------------------------ (CONTINUES) --------
OPTIONS: DISPLAY 1 (or D 5 etc) to see a record          HELP
GUIDE                   MORE - next page        START - search options
REDO - edit search                              QUIT - exit database
COMMAND?
@end cartouche
@end example

Most library systems give you a way to log off and return to your host
system.  On Hollis, hit escape followed by

@example
xx
@end example

One particularly interesting system is the one run by the Colorado
Alliance of Research Libraries, which maintains databases for libraries
throughout Colorado, the West and even in Boston.

@display
Telnet @host{pac.carl.org}
@end display

Follow the simple log-in instructions. When you get a menu, type @samp{72}
(even though that is not listed), which takes you to the Pikes Peak Library
District, which serves the city of Colorado Springs.

Several years ago, its librarians realized they could use their
database program not just for books but for cataloging city records and
community information, as well.  Today, if you want to look up municipal
ordinances or city records, you only have to type in the word you're
looking for and you'll get back cites of the relevant laws or decisions.

Carl will also connect you to the University of Hawaii library, which,
like the one in Colorado Springs, has more than just bibliographic material
online.  One of its features is an online Hawaiian almanac that can tell
you everything you ever wanted to know about Hawaiians, including the
number injured in boogie-board accidents each year (seven).


@c --------
@node Some Interesting Telnet Sites
@section Some Interesting Telnet Sites
@menu
* Agriculture::
* AIDS::
* Amateur Radio::
* Animals::
* Calculators::
* Chemistry::
* Congress::
* Conversation::
* Copyright Law::
* Current Events::
* Dictionary::
* Environment::
* Geography::
* Government::
* Health::
* Hiring and College Program Information::
* History::
* Mexico::
* Quotations::
* Religion::
* Ski Reports::
* Space::
* Supreme Court Decisions::
* Telnet Addresses::
* Thesaurus::
* Time::
* Transportation::
* Weather::
@end menu


@c --------
@node Agriculture
@subsection Agriculture

PENPages, run by Pennsylvania State University's College of
Agricultural Sciences, provides weekly world weather and crop reports
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These reports detail 
everything from the effect of the weather on palm trees in Malaysia to
the state of the Ukrainian wheat crop. Reports from Pennsylvania
country extension officers offer tips for improving farm life. One
database lists Pennsylvania hay distributors by county -- and rates
the quality of their hay!
@cindex PENPages

The service lets you search for information two different ways. A
menu system gives you quick access to reports that change frequently,
such as the weekly crop/weather reports. An index system lets you
search through several thousand online documents by keyword. At the
main menu, you can either browse through an online manual or choose
``PENPages,'' which puts you into the agriculture system.

@display
Telnet: @host{psupen.psu.edu}
User name: Your 2-letter state code or WORLD
@end display

California State University's Advanced Technology Information
Network provides similar information as PENPages, only focusing on
California crops. It also maintains lists of upcoming California trade
shows and carries updates on biotechnology.

@display
Telnet: @host{caticsuf.cati.csufresno.edu}
Log in: public
@end display

You will then be asked to register and will be given a user name
and password.  Hit @samp{a} at the main menu for agricultural information.
Hit @samp{d} to call up a menu that includes a biweekly biotechnology
report.


@c --------
@node AIDS
@subsection AIDS

The University of Miami maintains a database of AIDS health
providers in southern Florida.

@display
Telnet: @host{callcat.med.miami.edu}
Log in: library
@end display

At the main menu, select @samp{P} (for ``AIDS providers'') and you'll be able
to search for doctors, hospitals and other providers that care for
patients with AIDS.  You can also search by speciality.

See also under Conversation @ref{Conversation} and Health @ref{Health}.

@c --------
@node Amateur Radio
@subsection Amateur Radio

The National Ham Radio Call-Sign Callbook lets you search for
American amateur operators by callsign, city, last name or Zip code. A
successful search will give you the ham's name, address, callsign,
age, type of license and when he or she got it. 
Telnet:  @host{callsign.cs.buffalo.edu 2000} or @host{ham.njit.edu 2000}.
When you connect, you tell the system how you want to search and
what you're looking for. For example, if you want to search for hams
by city, you would type

@example
city city-name
@end example

and hit enter (for example: @samp{city Kankakee}).

Other search choices are ``call'' (after which you would type a
ham's call sign), ``name,'' and ``zip'' (which you would follow with a Zip
code).  Be careful when searching for hams in a large city; there
doesn't seem to be anyway to shut off the list once it starts except
by using control-]. Otherwise, when done, type

@example
quit
@end example

and hit enter to disconnect.


@c --------
@node Animals
@subsection Animals
See under Health @ref{Health}.


@ignore
@c --------
@node Art
@subsection Art

The National Gallery of Art in Washington maintains a database of
its holdings, which you can search by artist (Van Gogh, for example) or
medium (watercolor, say). You can see when specific paintings were
completed, what medium they are in, how large they are and who donated
it to the gallery.

@display
Telnet: @host{ursus.maine.edu}
Login: ursus
@end display

At the main menu, hit your @samp{b} key and then @samp{4} to connect to the
gallery database.
@cindex Van Gogh


@c --------
@node Books
@subsection Books

Bookstacks Unlimited is a Cleveland bookstore that uses the Internet
to advertise its services.  Its online system features not only a catalog, 
however, but conferences on books and literature.
@display
Telnet: @host{books.com}
@end display
Log in with your own name and select a password for future connections.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node Calculators
@subsection Calculators

Hewlett-Packard maintains a free service on which you can seek
advice about their line of calculators.

@display
Telnet: @host{hpcvbbs.cv.hp.com}
@end display

No log-in is needed.
@cindex Hewlett-Packard, Corp.


@c --------
@node Chemistry
@subsection Chemistry
The Electronic Periodic Table of the Elements draws the table on 
your screen and then lets you look up various properties of individual 
elements.

@display
Telnet: @host{camms2.caos.kun.nl}
No password needed.
@end display
@cindex Chemistry


@c --------
@node Congress
@subsection Congress

The Library of Congress Information Service lets you search current
and past legislation (dating to 1982).

@display
Telnet: @host{locis.loc.gov}
Password: none needed.
@end display

When you connect, you'll get a main menu that lets you select
from several databases, including the Library of Congress card catalog
(with book entries dating to 1978) and a database of information on
copyright laws.

For the congressional database, select the number next to its
entry and hit enter.  You'll then be asked to choose which legislative year 
to search. After that, a menu similar to this will come up:

@example
@cartouche
***C103- THE LEGISLATIVE INFORMATION FILE FOR THE 103RD CONGRESS,
which was updated on 05/10/93 and contains 4,044 records,
is now available for your search.

CURRENCY: All information is NOT current through the above date, which is
machine generated when ANY information is added to the file.
Bill numbers, official titles, sponsors, and status (STEP) added
within 48 hours.  Indexing terms and digests added later, in
some cases several weeks after the bill is added to the file.

TO START   RETRIEVE to find:              EXAMPLES:
SEARCH:    member name  -------------->   retrieve rep gingrich
                                          retrieve sen kennedy
           bill number  -------------->   retrieve h.r. 1
           subject keywords  --------->   retrieve day care

FOR HELP:  Type the word HELP and press the ENTER key.

READY FOR NEW COMMAND:
@end cartouche
@end example


@c --------
@node Conversation
@subsection Conversation

Communications Canada, a Canadian government agency is developing
Conversational Hypertext Access Technology (CHAT), a system
to provide easy database access to
people with little or no computer experience, using what are known as
hypertext links.  Instead of cryptic computer commands, users type
questions in English.

@display
Telnet: @host{debra.doc.ca}
Log in: chat
@end display

You choose one of the three databases now online, one on AIDS, and
then ask questions in English.
@cindex AIDS

Ask the AIDS database, ``When was AIDS first discovered?'' and it
answers:

``The first case of AIDS in North America was diagnosed in 1979.
Before that, it existed in Africa, probably beginning in the 1950's.
AIDS was discovered in North America when a number of young men with a
history of homosexuality developed a rare type of cancer called
Kaposi's sarcoma.''

Sometimes, you do have to rephrase your question. For example,
when asked ``What is the link between AIDS and drug use?'' the computer
responds:

``I know two things about drugs: the drugs that are used to treat
people with AIDS, and the risks that drug users have in getting AIDS.
Please ask about treatments or drug users.''


@c --------
@node Copyright Law
@subsection Copyright Law
See under Congress @ref{Congress}.


@c --------
@node Current Events
@subsection Current Events

Every year, the CIA publishes a Fact Book that is essentially an
almanac of all the world's countries and international organizations,
including such information as major products, type of government and
names of its leaders.  It's available for searching through the
University of Maryland Info Database.

@display
Telnet: @host{info.umd.edu}
@end display
@c User name: info

Chose a terminal type and hit enter (or just hit enter if you are
using VT100).  At the Gopher menu, choose the number next to
``Educational Resources''
and hit enter.  Then do the same in the next menu for
``International''.
One of your options will then be for ``Factbook.''  Chose
that one, and you can then search by country or agency.
@cindex CIA
@cindex Factbook
This site also maintains copies of the U.S. budget, documents related 
to the North American Free Trade Agreement and other government 
initiatives. At the ``Educational Resources'' menu, select the number next to 
``United States'' and then the one next to ``Government.''

The Access Legislative Information Service lets you browse through
and look up bills before the Hawaiian legislature.
Telnet: @host{access.uhcc.hawaii.edu}


@c --------
@node Dictionary
@subsection Dictionary

Rutgers University's Campus-Wide Information Service has an online
dictionary, thesaurus and database of familiar quotations, as well as
online copies of the Bible, the Koran and the Book of Mormon and the
U.S. Constitution.

@display
Telnet: @host{info.rutgers.edu}
No log-in name is needed.
@end display

At the main menu, type

@example
reference
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see a menu like this:

@example
@cartouche
Online reference material
Menu Commands...

Command         Purpose
-------         -------
Dictionary      Concise Oxford Dictionary, 8th Ed.
Thesaurus       Oxford Thesaurus
Familiar        Oxford Dictionary of Familiar Quotations (and Modern Q.)
World           CIA World Factbook
US              US government: Constitution, etc.
Religion        Bible, Book of Mormon, Koran

For more information you may look under Libraries in the main menu

Previous        Return to previous menu
Find            Search for information
Source          Age and provider of information.  Where to go for more.
Quit            Go back to main menu

Online reference material
Menu>
@end cartouche
@end example

To access any of them, type its name (dictionary, for example) and hit
enter.  You'll then be asked for the word to look for.  If, instead,
you type

@example
religion
@end example

and hit enter, you'll be able to search for a word or passage from the
Bible, the Koran or the Book of Mormon.
@cindex Bible
@cindex Koran
@cindex Book of Mormon


@c --------
@node Environment
@subsection Environment

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency maintains online
databases of materials related to hazardous waste, the Clean Lakes
program and cleanup efforts in New England.  The agency plans to
eventually include cleanup work in other regions, as well.  The
database is actually a computerized card catalog of EPA documents --
you can look the documents up, but you'll still have to visit your
regional EPA office to see them.

@display
Telnet: @host{epaibm.rtpnc.epa.gov}
No password or user name is needed.
@end display

At the main menu, type

@example
public
@end example

and hit enter (there are other listed choices, but they are only for
use by EPA employees).  You'll then see a one-line menu.  Type

@example
ols
@end example

and hit enter, and you'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
NET-106 Logon to TSO04    in progress.

DATABASES:
N     NATIONAL CATALOG         CH    CHEMICAL COLL. SYSTEM
H     HAZARDOUS WASTE          1     REGION I
L     CLEAN LAKES

OTHER OPTIONS:
?     HELP
Q     QUIT

ENTER SELECTION -->
@end cartouche
@end example

Choose one and you'll get a menu that lets you search by document
title, keyword, year of publication or corporation.  After you enter
the search word and hit enter, you'll be told how many matches were
found.  Hit 1 and then enter to see a list of the entries.  To view
the bibliographic record for a specific entry, hit V and enter and 
then type the number of the record.

The University of Michigan maintains a database of newspaper and
magazine articles related to the environment, with the emphasis on
Michigan, dating back to 1980.

@display
Telnet: @host{hermes.merit.edu}
Host: mirlyn
Log in: meem
@end display

Envirolink is a large database and conference system about the 
environment, based in Pittsburgh.

@display
Telnet: @host{envirolink.org}
Log on: gopher
@end display

See under Current Events @ref{Current Events} and Congress @ref{Congress}.



@c --------
@node Geography
@subsection Geography

The University of Michigan Geographic Name Server can provide
basic information, such as population, latitude and longitude of U.S.
cities and many mountains, rivers and other geographic features.
Telnet: @host{martini.eecs.umich.edu 3000}

No password or user name is needed. Type in the name of a city, a
Zip code or a geographic feature and hit enter.  The system doesn't like 
names with abbreviations in them (for example, Mt. McKinley), so spell 
them out (for example, Mount McKinley).

By typing in a town's name or zip code, you can find out a
community's county, Zip code and longitude and latitude. Not all
geographic features are yet included in the database.


@c --------
@node Government
@subsection Government
The National Technical Information Service runs a system that not 
only provides huge numbers of federal documents of all sorts -- from 
environmental factsheets to patent abstract -- but serves as a gateway to 
dozens of other federal information systems.

@display
Telnet: @host{fedworld.gov}
Log on as: new
@end display

See also under Congress @ref{Congress} and Current Events @ref{Current Events}.
   

@c --------
@node Health
@subsection Health

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration runs a database of health-information.

@display
Telnet: @host{fdabbs.fda.gov}
Log in: bbs
@end display

You'll then be asked for your name and a password you want to use
in the future.  After that, type

@example
topics
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see this:

@example
@cartouche
   TOPICS       DESCRIPTION

*  NEWS         News releases
*  ENFORCE      Enforcement Report
*  APPROVALS    Drug and Device Product Approvals list
*  CDRH         Centers for Devices and Radiological Health Bulletins
*  BULLETIN     Text from Drug Bulletin
*  AIDS         Current Information on AIDS
*  CONSUMER     FDA Consumer magazine index and selected articles
*  SUBJ-REG     FDA Federal Register Summaries by Subject
*  ANSWERS      Summaries of FDA information
*  INDEX        Index of News Releases and Answers
*  DATE-REG     FDA Federal Register Summaries by Publication Date
*  CONGRESS     Text of Testimony at FDA Congressional Hearings
*  SPEECH       Speeches Given by FDA Commissioner and Deputy
*  VETNEWS      Veterinary Medicine News
*  MEETINGS     Upcoming FDA Meetings
*  IMPORT       Import Alerts
*  MANUAL       On-Line User's Manual
@end cartouche
@end example

You'll be able to search these topics by key word or
chronologically. It's probably a good idea, however, to capture a copy
of the manual, first, because the way searching works on the system is a
little odd.  To capture a copy, type

@example
manual
@end example

and hit enter.  Then type

@example
scan
@end example

and hit enter.  You'll see this:

@example
@cartouche
FOR LIST OF AVAILABLE TOPICS TYPE TOPICS
OR ENTER THE TOPIC YOU DESIRE ==>

   MANUAL
   BBSUSER
   08-OCT-91
1  BBS User Manual
@end cartouche
@end example

At this point, turn on your own computer's screen-capture or logging
function and hit your 1 key and then enter.  The manual will begin to
scroll on your screen, pausing every 24 lines.


@c --------
@node Hiring and College Program Information
@subsection Hiring and College Program Information

The Federal Information Exchange in Gaithersburg, MD, runs two 
systems at the same address: FEDIX and MOLIS. FEDIX offers research,
scholarship and service information for several federal agencies,
including NASA, the Department of Energy and the Federal Aviation
Administration. Several more federal agencies provide minority hiring
and scholarship information. MOLIS provides information about minority 
colleges, their programs and professors.

@display
Telnet: @host{fedix.fie.com}
User name: fedix
@end display

(for the federal hiring database) or ``molis'' (for the minority-college
system). Both use easy menus to get you to information.
@cindex FEDIX
@cindex MOLIS


@c --------
@node History
@subsection History

Stanford University maintains a database of documents related to
Martin Luthor King.

@display
Telnet:  @host{forsythetn.stanford.edu}
Account: socrates
@end display

At the main menu, type @samp{select mlk} and hit enter.


@c --------
@node Mexico
@subsection Mexico
Jaguar.

Run by the Universidad de las Americas, Mexico, this system has Spanish
conferences, but English commands, as you can see from this menu of
available conferences:

@example
@cartouche
List of Boards
 Name                  Title
 Jaguar BBS            Anuncios y comentarios del servicio Jaguar BBS
 Debates               Discusion de Temas Peliagudos                     
 Internet              Preguntas y respuestas sobre el universo Internet
 CINEscope             Comentarios sobre peliculas y videos
 Libros                Todo lo referente a Libros de cualquier genero    
 Politica              Politica
 Inspiracion           Un espacio para ti: expresate!
 BBSports              La pagina deportiva del Jaguar
 Computadoras          Computadoras
 Sound Board           Musica
 English               I wanna I wanna ... Play/Read/wriTe in ENGLISH
 ISC                   Ingenieria en Sistemas Computacionales
 Pensamientos          Citas, pensamientos, refranes y dichos!
 Board Talk            Discusiones y comentarios sobre los boards
 General               Informacion general                               
 UDLA                  UDLA
 Cantina               Para desahogar sus penas
 Guys                  Solo para mujeres
 Sexualidad            Sexualidad
 Querido BBS           Psicologia
 Chistes               Chistes sanos sin malas palabras
 Heavy Chistes         Chistes de todos colores, lenguaje peligroso
 Games                 Juegos de computadora
 Misterios             Ovnis, Misterios y similares
 Otros Mundos          Universos distintos a la realidad
 Full Contact          FullContact... Ataque directo a otro usuario...
@end cartouche
@end example

Ask for an account! Send an e-mail message to
@email{alfredo@@udlapvms.pue.udlap.mx}
with: 1) userid, 2) real name, 3) address, 4) phone number and 5) e-mail.

@display
Telnet:  @host{jaguar.pue.udlap.mx}
@end display

At the "userid:" prompt, type 'bbs' and hit enter.
24 hours a day.

@c --------
@node Quotations
@subsection Quotations
See under Dictionary @ref{Dictionary}.


@c --------
@node Religion
@subsection Religion
See under Dictionary @ref{Dictionary}.


@c --------
@node Ski Reports
@subsection Ski Reports
See under Weather @ref{Weather}.


@c --------
@node Space
@subsection Space

NASA Spacelink in Huntsville, Ala.,  provides all sorts of
reports and data about NASA, its history and its various missions,
past and present.  You'll find detailed reports on every single probe,
satellite and mission NASA has ever launched along with daily updates
and lesson plans for teachers.
@cindex NASA

The system maintains a large file library of GIF-format space
graphics, but  you can't download these through telnet. If you want
them, you have to dial the system directly, at (205) 895-0028.

@display
Telnet: @host{spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov}
@end display

When you connect, you'll be given an overview of the system and
asked to register and choose a password.

The NED-NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database lists data on more than
100,000 galaxies, quasars and other objects outside the Milky Way.

@display
Telnet: @host{ipac.caltech.edu}
Log in: ned
@end display

You can learn more than you ever wanted to about quasars, novae and
related objects on a system run by the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.

@display
Telnet: @host{cfa204.harvard.edu}
Log in: einline
@end display

The physics department at the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst runs a bulletin-board system that provides extensive conferences
and document libraries related to space.

@display
Telnet: @host{spacemet.phast.umass.edu}
Log on with your name and a password.
@end display


@c --------
@node Supreme Court Decisions
@subsection Supreme Court Decisions
The University of Maryland Info Database maintains U.S. Supreme
Court decisions from 1991 on.

@display
Telnet: @host{info.umd.edu}
User name: info
@end display

Chose a terminal type and hit enter (or just hit enter
if you are using VT100).  At the main menu, choose the number next to
``Educational Resources''  and hit enter.  One of your options will then be
for ``United States.''  Select that number and then, at the next menu,
choose the one next to ``Supreme Court.''
@cindex Supreme Court, U.S.


@c --------
@node Telnet Addresses
@subsection Telnet Addresses
Hytelnet, at the University of Saskatchewan, is an online guide to
hundreds of telnet sites around the world.

@display
Telnet: @host{access.usask.ca}
Log in: hytelnet
@end display


@c --------
@node Thesaurus
@subsection Thesaurus
See under Dictionary @ref{Dictionary}.


@c --------
@node Time
@subsection Time

To find out the exact time:

@display
Telnet: @host{india.colorado.edu 13}
@end display

You'll see something like this:

@example
@cartouche
Escape character is '^]'.
Sun Apr  5 14:11:41 1992
Connection closed by foreign host.
@end cartouche
@end example

The middle line tells you the date and exact Mountain Standard
Time, as determined by a federal atomic clock.

If you want a more philosophical approach to your time, the U.S.
Naval Observatory's Automated Data Service has copies of detailed
papers on such things as ``the nature of time.''  It also carries
information on how to buy a clock, along with arcana on such things as
``leap seconds.''
@cindex ADS, Automated Data Service
@cindex US Naval Observatory

@var{Unfortunately the unrestricted telnet ``ads'' account that has been
introduced at this place in previous release of this guide has been
restricted for priviledged users. But an alternative way has also been
set up.}

@var{Now, one has to use an e-mail query to get the information, so
the following info would have better gone into another
(@pxref{Advanced E-mail}) section, but for the ``sake of history...''}

There is a new experimental mail server called ``adsmail'' on tycho.
It will send by return mail any of the ADS data files.
You can obtain a list of available files by sending e-mail to
@email{adsmail@@tycho} with subject: @samp{anything}. For example:

@example
mail -s anything adsmail@@tycho.usno.navy.mil
@end example

To obtain any pariticular ADS file, just send e-mail with the name of the 
command associated withe the file:
 
@example
mail -s gpssy adsmail@@tycho.usno.navy.mil
@end example

and in 10 minutes or less you will receive the requested file. This service
extends ADS access to people who normally cannot telnet to tycho. Note that
no password is required for e-mail service.


@c --------
@ignore
@display
Telnet: @host{tycho.usno.navy.mil}
Log on: ads
@end display

After you log in and register, you'll get the following menu:

@example
@cartouche
MAIN OPTIONS: info, note, ptti, exp, internet, nav, aust, tco, gps,
loran, omega, series, transit, astro, tv, soft, vlf, goes, gpsftp,
PAGE(/), HELP(?), COMMENT, EXIT(Bye)
@end cartouche
@end example

Type
@example
info
@end example

and hit enter for many of the text files.
@end ignore


@c --------
@node Transportation
@subsection Transportation

The Subway Navigator in Paris can help you learn how long it will 
take to get from point A to point B on subway systems around the world.

Telnet: @host{metro.jussieu.fr 10000}

No log-in is needed.
When you connect, you'll be asked to choose a language in which to 
search (you can choose English or French) and then a city to search.  
You'll be asked for the station you plan to leave from and the station 
you want to get to.


@c --------
@node Weather
@subsection Weather

The University of Michigan's Department of Atmospheric, Oceanographic
and Space Sciences supplies weather forecasts for U.S. and foreign cities,
along with skiing and hurricane reports. 

@display
Telnet: @host{madlab.sprl.umich.edu 3000} (note the 3000)
No log-in name is needed.
@end display

@xref{Weather (FTP)} in the FTP list for information on downloading
satellite and radar weather images.


@c --------
@node Telnet Bulletin-Board Systems
@section Telnet Bulletin-Board Systems
@menu
* Cimarron::
* Cleveland Free-Net::
* Dialog::
* DUBBS::
* ISCA BBS::
* Whole Earth Lectronic Link (WELL)::
* Youngstown Free-Net::
@end menu

You might think that Usenet, with its hundreds of newsgroups,
would be enough to satisfy the most dedicated of online communicators.
@cindex BBS
@cindex Bulletin Board System

But there are a number of ``bulletin-board'' and other systems that
provide even more conferences or other services, many not found
directly on the Net.  Some are free; others charge for access.  They
include:


@c --------
@node Cimarron
@subsection Cimarron
Run by the Instituto Technical in Monterey, Mexico,
this system has Spanish conferences, but English commands, as you can
see from this menu of available conferences:

@example
@cartouche
List of Boards
Name                 Title
General              Board general
Dudas                Dudas de Cimarron
Comentarios          Comentarios al SYSOP
Musica               Para los afinados........
Libros               El sano arte de leer.....
Sistemas             Sistemas Operativos en General.
Virus                Su peor enemigo......
Cultural             Espacio Cultural de Cimarron
NeXT                 El Mundo de NeXT
Ciencias             Solo apto para Nerds.
Inspiracion          Para los Romanticos e Inspirados.
Deportes             Discusiones Deportivas
@end cartouche
@end example

To be able to write messages and gain access to files, you have
to leave a note to SYSOP with your name, address, occupation and phone
number.  To do this, at any prompt, hit your M key and then enter,
which will bring up the mail system. Hitting H brings up a list of
commands and how to use them.

@display
Telnet: @host{bugs.mty.itesm.mx} (8 p.m. to 10 a.m., Eastern time, only).
@end display
At the ``login:'' prompt, type @samp{bbs} and hit enter.


@c --------
@node Cleveland Free-Net
@subsection Cleveland Free-Net
@cindex Free-Net
The first of a series of Free-nets, this
represents an ambitious attempt to bring the Net to the public.
Originally an in-hospital help network, it is now sponsored by Case
Western Reserve University, the city of Cleveland, the state of Ohio
and IBM. It uses simple menus, similar to those found on CompuServe,
but organized like a city:

@example
@cartouche
<<< CLEVELAND FREE-NET DIRECTORY >>>

 1 The Administration Building
 2 The Post Office
 3 Public Square
 4 The Courthouse & Government Center
 5 The Arts Building
 6 Science and Technology Center
 7 The Medical Arts Building
 8 The Schoolhouse (Academy One)
 9 The Community Center & Recreation Area
10 The Business and Industrial Park
11 The Library
12 University Circle
13 The Teleport
14 The Communications Center
15 NPTN/USA TODAY HEADLINE NEWS
------------------------------------------------
h=Help, x=Exit Free-Net, "go help"=extended help

Your Choice ==>
@end cartouche
@end example

The system has a vast and growing collection of public documents,
from copies of U.S. and Ohio Supreme Court decisions to the Magna
Carta and the U.S. Constitution.  It links residents to various
government agencies and has daily stories from USA Today. Beyond
Usenet (found in the Teleport area), it has a large collection of
local conferences on everything from pets to politics.  And yes, it's
free!

@display
Telnet: @host{freenet-in-a.cwru.edu}, @host{freenet-in-b.cwru.edu}
or @host{freenet-in-c.cwru.edu}
@end display

When you connect to Free-Net, you can look around the system.
However, if you want to be able to post messages in its conferences or
use e-mail, you will have to apply in writing for an account.
Information on this is available when you connect.


@c --------
@node Dialog
@subsection Dialog
@cindex Dialog
This commercial service offers access to a large variety
of databases -- for a fairly sizable fee.  You need a Dialog account to
use the system through the Net.

@display
Telnet: @host{dialog.com}
@end display


@c --------
@node DUBBS
@subsection DUBBS
@cindex DUBBS
This is a bulletin-board system in Delft in the
Netherlands. The conferences and files are mostly in Dutch, but the
help files and the system commands themselves are in English.
@display
Telnet: @host{tudrwa.tudelft.nl}
@end display


@c --------
@node ISCA BBS
@subsection ISCA BBS
Run by the Iowa Student Computer Association, it has
more than 100 conferences, including several in foreign languages.
After you register, hit @samp{K} for a list of available conferences and then
@samp{J} to join a particular conference (you have to type in the name of the
conference, not the number next to it).  Hitting H brings up
information about commands.
@display
Telnet @host{bbs.isca.uiowa.edu}
@end display
At the ``login:'' prompt, type @samp{bbs} and hit enter.


@c --------
@node Whole Earth Lectronic Link (WELL)
@subsection Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link (WELL)
Itself a major Net access
point in the San Francisco area, the WELL is also a unique online
community that maintains dozens of conferences on every imaginable
topic (seven devoted just to the Grateful Dead).  WELL users are
intelligent and opinionated; discussions are often fast and furious.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation was basically started in a series
of online conversations on the WELL. Although it has a serious San
Francisco flavor, it has users from across the country (enough to
support both East Coast and Midwest conferences).
@cindex The WELL
@cindex Greatful Dead

For its conferences, the WELL uses PicoSpan software, which
presents messages differently than rn or nn.   When you enter a
conference, you can call up a list of ``topics.''  Enter a topic number,
and all of the messages start scrolling down the screen, sort of like
the music on an old-fashioned player-piano.  There is some online
help, but new users are sent a written manual.
@c See Chapter 2
@xref{Electronic Mail}
for information on access charges (one advantage to connecting to the WELL
through telnet is that unless you live in the Bay Area, it is likely
to be much cheaper than other access methods).

@display
Telnet: @host{well.sf.ca.us}
@end display

@xref{The Well} if you're interested in an intimate look on The WELL.


@c --------
@node Youngstown Free-Net
@subsection Youngstown Free-Net
The people who created Cleveland Free-Net
sell their software for $1 to anybody willing to set up a similar
system. A number of cities now have their own Free-Nets, including
Youngstown, Ohio.
@display
Telnet: @host{yfn.ysu.edu}
@end display
At the ``login:'' prompt, type @samp{visitor} and hit enter.


@c --------
@node Putting the Finger on Someone
@section Putting the Finger on Someone

Finger is a handy little program which lets you find out more about 
people on the Net -- and lets you tell others on the Net more about 
yourself. 

Finger uses the same concept as telnet or ftp. But it works with 
only one file, called .plan (yes, with a period in front).  This is a 
text file an Internet user creates with a text editor in his home 
directory.  You can put your phone number in there, tell a little bit 
about yourself, or write almost anything at all.

To finger somebody else's @file{.plan} file, type this at the command
line:
@cindex .plan file

@example
finger email-address
@end example

where email-address is the person's e-mail address.  You'll get back a
display that shows the last time the person was online, whether
they've gotten any new mail since that time and what, if anything, is
in their @file{.plan} file.
Some people and institutions have come up with creative uses for
these @file{.plan} files, letting you do everything from checking the weather
in Massachusetts to getting the latest baseball standings.  Try
fingering these e-mail addresses:

@table @asis
@item @email{coke@@cs.cmu.edu}
See how many cans of each type of soda
are left in a particular soda machine
in the computer-science department of
Carnegie-Mellon University.

@item @email{weather@@cirrus.mit.edu}
Latest National Weather Service weather
forecasts for regions in Massachusetts.

@item @email{quake@@geophys.washington.edu}
Locations and magnitudes of recent
earthquakes around the world.

@item @email{jtchern@@ocf.berkeley.edu}
Current major-league baseball standings and
results of the previous day's games.

@item @email{nasanews@@space.mit.edu}
The day's events at NASA.
@end table


@c --------
@node Finding Someone on the Net
@section Finding Someone on the Net

So you have a friend and you want to find out if he has an Internet 
account to which you can write?  The quickest way may be to just pick up 
the phone, call him and ask him.  Although there are a variety of ``white 
pages'' services available on the Internet, they are far from complete -- 
college students, users of commercial services such as CompuServe and 
many Internet public-access sites, and many others simply won't be 
listed.  Major e-mail providers are working on a universal directory 
system, but that could be some time away.
@cindex White pages

In the meantime, a couple of ``white pages'' services might give you 
some leads, or even just entertain you as you look up famous people or 
long-lost acquaintances.

The whois directory provides names, e-mail and postal mail address 
and often phone numbers for people listed in it.  To use it, telnet to
@host{internic.net}.
No log-on is needed.  The quickest way to use it is to type

@example
whois name
@end example
  
at the prompt, where "name" is the last name or organization name you're 
looking for.

Another service worth trying, especially since it seems to give 
beginners fewer problems, is the Knowbot Information Service reachable by 
telnet at @host{info.cnri.reston.va. us 185}.
@cindex Knowbot Information Service
@cindex KIS
Again, no log-on is needed.  This service actually searches through a 
variety of other ``white pages'' systems, including the user directory for 
MCIMail.  To look for somebody, type
@cindex MCIMail

@example
query name
@end example

@samp{name} is the last name of the person you're looking for.  You can 
get details of other commands by hitting a question mark at the prompt.

You can also use the knowbot system by e-mail.
Either send a message to
@email{kis@@cnri.reston. va.us}
or try
@email{netaddress@@sol.bucknell.edu}
Leave the ``subject:'' line blank. As your message, write 
@samp{query name}
for the simplest type of search.  If you want details on more complex
searches, add another line:
@samp{man}

@c added by -joke
Apart from the previously mentioned methods, there exists a periodical
posting on Usenet entitled @fyi{How to find people's E-mail addresses}
that is edited and maintained by @var{Jonathan I. Kamens}.
@cindex Kamens, Jonathan I.
It lists several alternatives in order of success probability, to enable
everybody to find everyone.

Just get @file{/pub/usenet/news.answers/finding-addresses}
from @host{rtfm.mit.edu}. @xref{FTP} to find out how to access this
server. It's cross-posted each month to
@news{comp.mail.misc},
@news{soc.net-people},
@news{news.newusers.questions}, and the respective @news{*.answers}
newsgroups.

The most interesting way described therein is a
way to search via the Usenet name server. This is a 
system at MIT that keeps track of the e-mail addresses of everybody who 
posts a Usenet message that appears at MIT.
It works by e-mail.  Send a message to 
@email{mail-server@@rtfm.mit.edu}.
You can leave the @samp{Subject:} line blank. As your message, write
@samp{send usenet-addresses/lastname}
where ``lastname'' is the last name of the person you're looking for.


@c --------
@node When things go wrong IV
@section When things go wrong:
@itemize @bullet
@item
Nothing happens when you try to connect to a telnet site.  The
site could be down for maintenance or problems.

@item
You get a ``host unavailable'' message.  The telnet site is down
for some reason.

Try again later.

@item
You get a ``host unknown'' message.

Check your spelling of the site name.

@item
You type in a password on a telnet site that requires one, and
you get a ``login incorrect'' message.

Try logging in again.  If you get
the message again, hit your control and @samp{]} keys at the same time to
disengage and return to your host system.

@item
You can't seem to disconnect from a telnet site.

Use control-] to disengage and return to your host system.
@end itemize


@c --------
@node Telnet FYI
@unnumberedsec FYI:

The Usenet newsgroups @news{alt.internet.services} and
@news{alt.bbs.internet}
can provide pointers to new telnet systems.  @b{Scott Yanoff} periodically
posts his @fyi{Updated Internet Services List} in the former;
The @news{alt.bbs.internet} newsgroup is
also where you'll find @b{Aydin Edguer}'s compendium of FAQs related to 
Internet bulletin-board systems.
@b{Peter Scott}, who maintains the Hytelnet database, runs a
mailing list about new telnet services and changes in existing ones.
To get on the list, send him a note at @email{scott@@sklib.usask.ca}.
@b{Gleason Sackman} is a veteran @b{net.surfer} who maintains another mailing
list dedicated to new Internet services and news about the new uses to
which the Net is being put.  To subscribe, send a message to 
@email{listserv@@internic.net}. Leave the ``Subject:'' line blank, and as
your message, write: @samp{Sub net-happenings Your Name}.
@cindex Sackman, Gleason
@cindex Yanoff, Scott
@cindex Edguer, Aydin
@cindex Scott, Peter
@cindex Net.surfer

@ignore
@cindex Kreeger, Thomas
@b{Thomas Kreeger}
periodically posts @fyi{Zamfield's Wonderfully Incomplete, Complete Internet
BBS List} in the latter newsgroup.
@end ignore

@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``Good literature is about Love and War.
Trash fiction is about Sex and Violence.''}
--- @b{Author Unknown}

@emph{``The world's as ugly as sin, and almost as delightful.''}
--- @b{Frederick Locker-Lampson}
@end flushright
