@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: eff.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:24:59 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: EFF

@c --------
@menu
* General Information::		Infos About the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
* How to connect to EFF?::	Connecting to EFF.
* Membership in the EFF::	How to become a member of EFF.
@end menu


@c --------
@node General Information
@section General Information About the EFF
@menu
* Information Infrastructure::	Introducing the EFF.
* Civil Liberties::		The civil liberties EFF cares about.
* Legal Services::		Legal services provided by the EFF.
* Community Building::		How to build an Internet community?
@end menu

@emph{The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)} was founded in July of 1990 to
ensure that the principles embodied in the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights are protected as new communications technologies emerge.
@cindex Bill of Rights
@cindex EFF, Electronic Frontier Foundation
@cindex EFF, Foundation Date

From the beginning, EFF has worked to shape our nation's communications
infrastructure and the policies that govern it in order to maintain and
enhance First Amendment, privacy and other democratic values. We believe
that our overriding public goal must be the creation of Electronic
Democracy, so our work focuses on the establishment of:

@itemize @bullet
@item
new laws that protect citizens' basic Constitutional rights as they
use new communications technologies,

@item
a policy of common carriage requirements for all network providers
so that all speech, no matter how controversial, will be carried without
discrimination,

@item
a National Public Network where voice, data and video services are
accessible to all citizens on an equitable and affordable basis, and

@item
a diversity of communities that enable all citizens to have a voice
in the information age.
@end itemize


@c --------
@node Information Infrastructure
@subsection Information Infrastructure

EFF's Open Platform Proposal advocates that the nation's telecommunications
infrastructure providers offer affordable, widely available transmission of
voice, data and video information.  The telecommunications infrastructure
must promote broad access and enable citizens to receive and publish a
diversity of information.  In addition, a competitive environment must be
ensured to preserve the core principles of common carriage, universal
service and open standards.

In the near term, EFF supports the implementation of services such as ISDN
and ADSL, currently available digital technologies, for sending voice, data
and video at reasonable cost to consumers.
@cindex ISDN, Integrated Services Digital Network
@cindex ADSL

EFF supports federal funding to promote the development of network tools
and applications that will make the Internet and the NREN easier to use.
Although the NREN will be made up of services from commercial providers,
government also has a vital role to play in making grants to institutions
that cannot afford to pay for Internet connectivity.
@c @cindex NREN, National Research and Education Network
@cindex NREN


@c --------
@node Civil Liberties
@subsection Civil Liberties

EFF has been working to ensure that common carrier principles are upheld in
the information age.  Common carrier principles require that network
providers carry all speech, regardless of its controversial content.
Common carriers must also provide all speakers and information providers
with equal, nondiscriminatory access to the network.

EFF chairs the Digital Security and Privacy Working Group, a coalition of
over 50 organizations--from computer software and hardware firms,
telecommunications and energy companies to civil liberties advocates--that
work on sound privacy policies in telecommunications.  For example, the
group has worked to oppose the FBI's Digital Telephony proposal and
government-mandated encryption policies.
@cindex Digital Security and Privacy Working Group
@cindex FBI, Federal Bureau of Investigation
@cindex Data encrytion policy

EFF is working to convince Congress that all measures supporting broader
public access to information should be enacted into law.  EFF supports an
Electronic Freedom of Information Act and other legislation to make
information more accessible to citizens in electronic formats.

EFF supports both legal and technical means to enhance privacy in
communications.  We, therefore, advocate all measures that ensure the
public's right to use the most effective encryption technologies available.


@c --------
@node Legal Services
@subsection Legal Services

EFF sponsors legal cases where users' online civil liberties have been
violated.  The Steve Jackson Games case, decided in March of 1993,
established privacy protections for electronic publishers and users of
electronic mail.  We continue to monitor the online community for legal
actions that merit EFF support.
@cindex Jackson, Steve

EFF provides a free telephone hotline for members of the online community
who have questions regarding their legal rights.

Members of EFF's staff and board speak to law enforcement organizations,
state attorney bar associations and university classes on the work that we
do and how these groups can get involved.


@c --------
@node Community Building
@subsection Community Building

EFF, in conjunction with the Consumer Federation of America and the
American Civil Liberties Union, coordinates and sponsors the Communications
Policy Forum (CPF).  CPF enables nonprofit organizations, computer and
communications firms, and government policymakers to come together in a
nonpartisan setting to discuss communications policy goals and strategies.
@cindex CPF, Communications Policy Forum

EFF works with local organizations that support online communications
issues.  In September of 1993, EFF will cosponsor a cryptography conference
with a group in Austin, Texas.  Earlier this year, EFF sponsored a summit
of groups from around the country to discuss common goals.  We also
participate in an online mailing list for organizations that share our
interests.

EFF is a funder and organizer of the annual Computers, Freedom and Privacy
conference, where academics, civil libertarians, law enforcement officials
and computer users all meet to discuss the privacy implications of
communicating online.  Each year at the conference, EFF presents its
Pioneer awards to individuals who have made significant contributions to
computer communications.
@cindex EFF, Annual Pioneer Award

EFF maintains several communications forums online.  We have our own
Internet node, eff.org, which houses our FTP and Gopher sites and our
discussion areas, @news{comp.org.eff.talk} and @news{comp.org.eff.news}.
EFF also maintains conferences on the @emph{Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link (WELL)},
@emph{CompuServe} and @emph{America Online}.


@c --------
@node How to connect to EFF?
@section How to connect to EFF?
@menu
* EFF on Internet and USENET::	Connecting to EFF from Internet and USENET.
* EFF on The WELL::		Connecting to EFF from The Well.
* EFF on CompuServe::		Connecting to EFF from CompuServe.
* EFF on America Online::	Connecting to EFF from America Online.
@end menu


@c --------
@node EFF on Internet and USENET
@subsection Internet and USENET

General information requests, including requests to be added to the
EFFector Online mailing list, can be sent to @email{eff@@eff.org}.
Other Internet contact addresses are as follows:

@table @asis
@item  @email{membership@@eff.org}
Membership & donations.

@item @email{ssteele@@eff.org}
Legal services.

@item @email{pubs@@eff.org}
Hardcopy publications.

@item @email{mech@@eff.org}
Online publications, conferences, & other resources.

@item @email{ask@@eff.org}
General EFF, legal, or policy questions.
@end table

If you receive any USENET newsgroups, your site may carry the newsgroups
@news{comp.org.eff.news} and @news{comp.org.eff.talk}. The former is a
moderated newsgroup for announcements, newsletters, and other information;
the latter
is an unmoderated discussion group for discussing EFF and issues relating
to the electronic frontier.

For those unable to read the newsgroups, there are redistributions via
electronic mail. Send requests to be added to or dropped from the
@news{comp.org.eff.news} mailing list to @email{eff-request @@eff.org}.
For the @news{comp.org.eff.talk} mailing list, send a note to
@email{eff-talk-request@@eff.org}.
Please note that eff-talk can be extremely high-volume at times.

A document library containing all EFF news releases and other publications
of interest, including John Perry Barlow's history of EFF, @fyi{Crime and
Puzzlement}, is available via anonymous FTP from @host{ftp.eff.org}.
Send a note to @email{ftphelp@@eff.org} if you have questions or are
unable to use FTP.
This archive is also accessible via Gopher. Try @samp{gopher gopher.eff.org}.

@c --------
@node EFF on The WELL
@subsection The WELL

The WELL is host to an active EFF conference, as well as many other related
conferences of interest to EFF supporters. Access to the WELL is $15/month
plus $2/hour. Telecom access is available through the CompuServe Packet
Network for an additional $4.50/hour. If you have an Internet connection,
you can reach the WELL via telnet at @host{well.sf.ca.us};
otherwise, dial @t{+1 415 332 6106} (data). The WELL's voice number
is @t{+1 415 332 4335}.
@cindex The WELL

@c --------
@node EFF on CompuServe
@subsection CompuServe

Our forum on CompuServe is also open. @samp{GO EFFSIG} to join.
Many of the files on @news{ftp.eff.org}, as well as other items of
interest, are mirrored in the EFFSIG Libraries.
@cindex CompuServe

@c --------
@node EFF on America Online
@subsection America Online

EFF hosts a Special Interest Group on America Online as part of the
@emph{Macintosh Communications Forum (MCM)}. @samp{GOTO Keyword EFF} to join.
Many of the files on @news{ftp.eff.org}, as well as other items of interest,
are mirrored in this forum. In addition, EFF sponsors an interactive
discussion on this forum the second Saturday night of each month
at 9:00 p.m. ET.
@cindex America Online
@cindex MCM, Macintosh Communications Forum

@c --------
@page

@c --------
@node Membership in the EFF
@section Membership in the Electronic Frontier Foundation

@iftex
@display
@end iftex
I wish to become a member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  I enclose:

$__________  Regular membership -- $40
$__________  Student membership -- $20


Special Contribution

I wish to make a tax-deductible donation in the amount of $__________ to
further support the activities of EFF and to broaden participation in the
organization.


Documents Available in Hard Copy Form

The following documents are available free of charge from the Electronic
Frontier Foundation.  Please indicate any of the documents you wish to
receive.

 ___  Open Platform Proposal - EFF's proposal for a national
telecommunications infrastructure.  12 pages.  July, 1992

 ___  An Analysis of the FBI Digital Telephony Proposal - Response of
EFF-organized coalition to the FBI's digital telephony proposal of Fall,
1992.  8 pages.  September, 1992.

 ___  Building the Open Road:  The NREN and the National Public Network -
A discussion of the National Research and Education Network as a prototype
for a National Public Network.  20 pages.  May, 1992.

 ___  Innovative Services Delivered Now:  ISDN Applications at Home, School,
the Workplace and Beyond - A compilation of ISDN applications currently in
use.  29 pages.  January, 1993.

 ___  Decrypting the Puzzle Palace - John Perry Barlow's argument for strong
encryption and the need for an end to U.S. policies preventing its
development and use. 13 pages.  May, 1992.

 ___  Crime and Puzzlement - John Perry Barlow's piece on the founding of
the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the world of hackers, crackers and
those accused of computer crimes. 24 pages.  June, 1990.

 ___  Networks & Policy - A quarterly newsletter detailing EFF's activities
and achievements.


Your Contact Information:

Name:  ___________________________________________________________________

Organization:  ___________________________________________________________

Address:  ________________________________________________________________

 ___________________________________________________________

Phone:  (____)  _______________  FAX:  (____)  _______________  (optional)

E-mail address:  _________________________________________________________


Payment Method

 ___ Enclosed is a check payable to the Electronic Frontier Foundation.

 ___ Please charge my:
 ___ MasterCard  ___ Visa  ___ American Express

Card Number:  ____________________________________________

Expiration Date:  ________________________________________

Signature:  ______________________________________________


Privacy Policy

EFF occasionally shares our mailing list with other organizations promoting
similar goals.  However, we respect an individual's right to privacy and
will not distribute your name without explicit permission.

 ___ I grant permission for the EFF to distribute my name and contact
information to organizations sharing similar goals.
@iftex
@end display
@end iftex

Print out and mail to:
@sp 1

@center Membership Coordinator
@center Electronic Frontier Foundation
@center 1001 G Street, N.W.
@center Suite 950 East
@center Washington, DC 20001
@center (202) 347-5400 voice
@center (202) 393-5509 fax
@sp 1

The Electronic Frontier Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization
supported by contributions from individual members, corporations and
private foundations.  Donations are tax-deductible.


@c --------
@iftex
@page
@vskip 50pt
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@quotation
@center @b{Get GUMMed}

@emph{``The Gurus of Unix Meeting of Minds (GUMM) takes place Wednesday,
April 1, 2076 (check THAT in your perpetual calendar program), 14 feet above
the ground directly in front of the Milpitas Gumps.  Members will grep
each other by the hand (after intro), yacc a lot, smoke filtered
chroots in pipes, chown with forks, use the wc (unless uuclean), fseek
nice zombie processes, strip, and sleep, but not, we hope, od.  Three
days will be devoted to discussion of the ramifications of whodo.  Two
seconds have been allotted for a complete rundown of all the user-
friendly features of Unix.  Seminars include ``Everything You Know is
Wrong,'' led by Tom Kempson, ``Batman or Cat:man?'' led by Richie Dennis
``cc C?  Si!  Si!'' led by Kerwin Bernighan, and ``Document Unix, Are You
Kidding?'' led by Jan Yeats.  No Reader Service No. is necessary because
all GUGUs (Gurus of Unix Group of Users) already know everything we
could tell them.''}
@end quotation

@flushright 
--- @b{Dr. Dobb's Journal, June '84}
@end flushright
