@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: paper.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:25:06 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up node is: Paperware

@menu
* Hard & Softcovers::		Bound literature on the Internet.
* Journal Articles and Papers::	Other paperware publications.
* News bits::			Cyberspace-realated News bits.
* E-text::			Usenet articles, literary Freeware.
* FYI Addresses::		Some selected publisher's addresses.
@end menu

The following is a compendium of sources that have information that
will be of use to anyone reading this guide.  Some of them were used
in the writing of this guide, while others are simply noted because
they are a must for any good @b{net.citizen}'s bookshelf.
@cindex Net.citizen

It might also be useful for those, who are interested in the history
of the Internet. Thanks for the better part of this compilation to
@var{Henry Edward Hardy}. It has been stripped from his
@cindex Hardy, Henry E.
Master's Thesis @fyi{The History of the Net} at the School of Communications,
Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI 49401.
Version 7.2 was posted to @news{comp.org.eff.talk} on
August 28, 1993.

@quotation
Version 8.5 of @fyi{The History of the Net} is now available.  This
is exactly the same as the final, archival copy submitted to the
Grand Valley State University Library.  Work will continue to
produce an article, and perhaps also a book, from this material.
I invite continued responses, particularly with reference to the
history of non-American networks.  Corrections or general discussion
are also welcome.

Please note that this is a draft of an unpublished work, here
presented for purposes of peer review and comment.  Please email
comments, questions and errata to @email{seraphim@@umcc.umich.edu}.

Current copies of this work are be available via
@samp{gopher umcc.umich.edu 1.14.3} and by anon ftp from @host{umcc.umich.edu}
@file{/pub/seraphim/doc/nethist8.txt}.

I put a Mac Word and a postscript version of the text in the anon FTP
directory if you would like a pretty version.  A printed and bound
(in one of those $3 hard 2-hole report binders) edition, numbered
and signed by the author, is also available for $.  Email me for
details.

Thanks, --HH @email{seraphim@@umcc.umich.edu}
@end quotation

The most recent additions to this resource were stripped from a bi-weekly
posting by @var{Kevin M. Savetz}
@email{savetz@@northcoast.com}
entitled @fyi{The Unofficial Internet Book
List}, which is truly the most extensive bibliography of books about the
Internet.
@cindex Savetz, Kevin M.

It's available from a bulk of newsgroups including, what else?,
@news{news.answers}. Here's the precise:

@quotation
This file is posted twice monthly (on the 5th and 19th of each month) to
the Usenet newsgroups
@news{alt.internet.services}, @news{alt.online-service},
@news{alt.books.technical}, @news{misc.books.technical},
@news{alt.bbs.internet}, @news{misc.answers},
@news{alt.answers} and @news{news.answers}.
@end quotation


Note that some publishers might also be contacted by e-mail, e.g.:

Addison-Wesley. E-mail: @email{74230.3622@@compuserve.com}.
Orders: 800-822-6339.

Albion Books. E-mail: @email{info@@albion.com}.
415-572-7666. Fax 415-752-5417

O'Reilly & Associates: @email{info@@ora.com}.
707-829-0515, Fax 707-829-0104. 103A
Morris Street, Sebastopol CA 95472.

Prentice-Hall. E-mail: @email{info@@prenhall.com}
or gopher: @host{gopher.prenhall.com}.
515-284-6751. Fax: 515-284-2607. Route 9W, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632.


@c --------
@node Hard & Softcovers
@section Hardcover & Softcover Publications

@c @noindent
@b{Bamford, James} (1982)
@fyi{The Puzzle Palace: a report on NSA, America's most secret agency}
Boston: Houghton Mifflin.

@c @noindent
@b{Barnouw, Erik} (1968a)
@fyi{A Tower in Babel}
Oxford: Oxford University Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Barnouw, Erik} (1968b)
@fyi{The Golden Web}
Oxford: Oxford University Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Brand, Stewart} (1974)
@fyi{Two Cybernetic Frontiers}
Random House, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Brand, Stewart} (1988)
@fyi{The Media Lab: Inventing the Future at MIT}
New York, NY: Penguin.

@c @noindent
@b{Brunner, John} (1975)
@fyi{The Shockwave Rider}

@c @noindent
@b{Cathcart, Robert & Gumpert, Gary} (1986)
@fyi{Intermedia: Interpersonal Communication in a Media World} (2nd ed)
New York, NY: Oxford University Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Cerf, Vincent G.} (1990)
@fyi{Requiem for the ARPANET}
Poem, reprinted in LaQuey (1990), 202-204.

@c @noindent
@b{Comer, Douglas E.} (1991)
@fyi{Internetworking With TCP/IP, 2nd ed., @r{2v}}
Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.

@c @noindent
@b{Davidson, John} (1988)
@fyi{An Introduction to TCP/IP}
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.

@c @noindent
@b{Frey, Donnalyn, @r{and} Adams, Rick} (1989)
@fyi{!@@%:: A Directory of Electronic Mail Addressing and Networks}
O'Reilly & Associates, Newton, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Garfinkel, Simson @r{and} Spafford, Gene} (1992)
@fyi{Practical UNIX Security}
O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{Gibson, William} (1984)
@fyi{Neuromancer}
Ace, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Gibson, William} (1987)
@fyi{Count Zero}
Ace, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Gibson, William} (1993)
@fyi{Virtual Light}
Bantam Books, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Gilster, Paul} (1993)
@fyi{The Internet Navigator: The Essential Guide to Network
exploration for the Indivudual Dial-Up User}
Wiley & Sons, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Hahn, Harley} (1993)
@fyi{A Student's Guide to UNIX}
Osborne McGraw-Hill.

@c @noindent
@b{Hahn, Harley} (1993)
@fyi{The Internet Complete Reference}
Osborne McGraw-Hill. ISBN: 0-07-881980-6.
The MOST comprehensive book on Internet.
800 pages of information for just $29.95.

@c @noindent
@b{Hunt, Craig} (1992)
@fyi{TCP/IP Network Administration}
O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{Innis, Harold Adams} (1949)
@fyi{Minerva's Owl; presidential address reprinted from the Procedings
of the Royal Society of Canada}
Toronto: University of Toronto Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Jones, Paul} (1992)
@fyi{What is the Internet?}
Chapel Hill, NC: Office for Information Technology.
University of North Carolina.

@c @noindent
@b{Kehoe, Brendan P.} (1992)
@fyi{Zen and the Art of the Internet:
A Beginner's Guide to the Internet. 2nd ed.}
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.

@c @noindent
@b{Kidder, Tracy} (1981)
@fyi{The Soul of a new Machine}
Little, Brown & Company, Boston, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Kochmer, Jonathan} (1993)
@fyi{The Internet Passport:
NorthWestNet's Guide to Our World Online}
NorthWestNet, Bellevue, WA.
(Contact: @email{passport@@nwnet.net})

@c @noindent
@b{Krol, Ed} (1992)
@fyi{The Whole Internet: Catalog & User's Guide}
O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{LaQuey, Tracy} (1990)
@fyi{Users' Directory of Computer Networks}
Digital Press, Bedford, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{LaQuey, T. @r{and} Ryer, J.C.} (1992)
@fyi{The Internet Companion: A Beginner's Guide to Global Networking}
Addison--Wesley, Reading, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Laver, Murray} (1975)
@fyi{Computers, Communications, and Society}
Oxford: Oxford University Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Levy, Stephen} (1984)
@fyi{Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution}
Anchor Press/Doubleday, Garden City, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{McLuhan, Marshall} (1967)
@fyi{Understanding Media: the Extensions of Man}
London: Sphere Books.

@c @noindent
@b{McLuhan, Marshall} (1989)
@fyi{The Global Village: transformations in world life and media in
the 21st Century}
New York, NY: Oxford University Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Mosco, Vincent} (1982)
@fyi{Pushbutton Fantasies: critical perspectives on videotext and
information technology}
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.

@c @noindent
@b{Mulgan, Geoff J.} (1991)
@fyi{Communication and Control: networks and the new economics of
communication}
New York: Guilford Press.

@c @noindent
@b{Office of Technology Assessment} (1981)
@fyi{Computer-Based National Information Systems}
Technology and Public Policy Issues.
Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.

@c @noindent
@b{O'Reilly Tim @r{and} Todino, Grace} (1992)
@fyi{Managing UUCP and USENET: A Nutshell Handbook, 10th ed.}
O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{Partridge, Craig} (1988)
@fyi{Innovations in Internetworking}
ARTECH House, Norwood, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Quarterman, John S.} (1989)
@fyi{The Matrix: Computer Networks and Conferencing Systems Worldwide}
Digital Press, Bedford, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Raymond, Eric (ed)} (1993)
@fyi{The New Hacker's Dictionary}
2nd Edition, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Rheingold, Howard} (1985)
@fyi{Tools for Thought}
New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Reingold, Howard} (1991)
@fyi{Virtual Reality}
New York, NY: Simon & Schuster.

@c @noindent
@b{Rheingold, Howard} (1993)
@fyi{The Virtual Community: Homesteading On The Electronic Frontier}
Addison--Wesley, Reading, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{Reinhart, Robert B.} (1993)
@fyi{An Architectural Overview of Unix Security}
Annapolis, MD: ARINC Research Corporation.

@c @noindent
@b{Rubin, R. B., Rubin, A. M., & Piele, L. J.} (1990)
@fyi{Communications research: Strategies and sources (2nd ed.)}
Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.

@c @noindent
@b{Russel, Deborah @r{and} Gangemi Sr., G.T.} (1992)
@fyi{Computer Security Basics}
O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{Sterling, Bruce} (1992)
@fyi{The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder at the Electronic Frontier}
Bantam Books, NY: New York.

@c @noindent
@b{Sterling, Bruce} (1994)
@fyi{The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder at the Electronic Frontier
(electronical edition)}
Available on the ``Agitprop'' disk, and all it's electronic archives
(@pxref{Others}).

@c @noindent
@b{Stanford Research Institute (SRI)} (1973)
@fyi{Computer Abuse}
Prepared for National Science Foundation (Publication Number
PB-231 320).
Springfield, VA: Reproduced by National Technical
Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce.

@c @noindent
@b{Stoll, Clifford} (1989)
@fyi{The Cuckoo's Egg}
Doubleday, New York, NY.

@c @noindent
@b{Tanenbaum, Andrew S.} (1988)
@fyi{Computer Networks, 2nd ed.}
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.

@c @noindent
@b{Todinao, Grace} (1986)
@fyi{Using UUCP and USENET: A Nutshell Handbook}
O'Reilly & Associates, Newton, MA.

@c @noindent
@b{The Waite Group} (1991)
@fyi{Unix Communications, 2nd ed.}
Howard W. Sams & Company, Indianapolis.

@c @noindent
@b{U.S. House of Representatives, Subcommittee on Courts, Civil
Liberties, and the Administration of Justice} (1985)
@fyi{1984}
Civil Liberties and the National Security State. Committee Serial No.
103. Hearings to assess the threat to civil liberties posed by
Government national security secrecy and surveillance activities,
including restrictions on disclosure of certain types of
information and use of electronic surveillance and other
information-gathering practices. Washington, D.C., U.S.
Government Printing Office.


@c --------
@node Journal Articles and Papers
@section Journal Articles and Papers

@c @table @asis
@c @item @b{A}
@c @noindent
@b{Alexander, Michael} (1991)
@fyi{Hacker probe bogged down; Operation Sundevil case going nowhere}
Computerworld, February 11, 1.

@c @noindent
@b{Anderson, Christopher} (1993)
@fyi{The Rocky Road to a Data Highway}
Science, 260(21), 1064--1065.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Merit Network Signs Agreement to Pass Commercial Data Traffic}
Information Technology Digest, 1(10), 3.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1991)
@fyi{National research network driven by differing goals and visions}
Common Carrier Week, 8(23), 4.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Portal Communications}
UNIX Review, 8(11), 141.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1990)
@fyi{SOVIET UNIX USERS GROUP TO JOIN Usenet  NETWORK}
Computergram International.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Usenet AND LISTSERVS: ELECTRONIC NEWS AND CONFERENCING}
Online Libraries & Microcomputers, 10(5), 1.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1988)
@fyi{Usenet/Eunet machen Btx zum Info-Center}
Computerwoche, 14.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Using uucp and Usenet}
UNIX Review, 10(8), 54.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1989)
@fyi{Farewell to the free Minitel?}
Data Communications, March, 73.


@c --------
@c @item @b{B}
@c @noindent
@b{Barlow, J.} (1990)
@fyi{Beeing in Nothingness}
NONDO 2000, Number 2, Summer 1990.

@c @noindent
@b{Barlow, J.} (1991)
@fyi{Coming Into The Country}
Communications of the ACM @r{34:3}, March 1991, 2.
(Addresses ``Cyberspace'' --John Barlow was a co-founder of the EFF.)

@c @noindent
@b{Barlow, John Perry} (1993)
@fyi{Bill 'O Rights}
Communications of the ACM 36(3), 21--23.

@c @noindent
@b{Basch, Reva} (1991)
@fyi{Books online: visions, plans and perspectives for electronic text}
Online v. 15, July, 13.

@c @noindent
@b{Beishon, M} (1984)
@fyi{Usenet's Pranks and Pragmatism}
Hardcopy, 13(8), 20--28.

@c @noindent
@b{Bjerklie, David}
@fyi{Email, the boss is watching}
Technology Review, v.96, 29.

@c @noindent
@b{Bricken, W.}
@fyi{Cyberspace 1999}
NONDO 2000, Number 2, Summer 1990.

@c @noindent
@b{Buerger, David J.} (1988)
@fyi{AT&T's shutdown of Usenet backbone nodes need not spell doom to users}
InfoWorld. 10(28), 14.

@c @noindent
@b{Buerger, David J.} (1988)
@fyi{Long-term stability and prosperity of Usenet rests on fee-based
trunk feeds}
InfoWorld. 10(30), 16.

@c @noindent
@b{Bush, R.}
@fyi{FidoNet: technology, Tools, and History}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 31--35.


@c --------
@c @item @b{C}
@c @noindent
@b{Campbell, A.}
@fyi{E-mail Beyond Unix}
UnixWorld, November 1991, 77--80.

@c @noindent
@b{Carl-Mitchell, S. @r{and} Quarterman, J.S.}
@fyi{Building Internet Firewalls}
UnixWorld, February 1992, 93--103.

@c @noindent
@b{Cathcart, Robert & Gumpert, Gary} (1983)
@fyi{Mediated Interpersonal Communication: Toward a New Typology}
Quarterly Journal of Speech, v. 69, 267--277.

@c @noindent
@b{Cerf, Vincent G.} (1991)
@fyi{Networks}
Scientific American, v. 265, 72.

@c @noindent
@b{Clark, Paul C. and Hoffman, Lance J.}
@fyi{Imminent policy considerations in the design and management of
national and international computer networks}
IEEE Communications Magazine, 68--74.

@c @noindent
@b{Collyer, G., @r{and} Spencer, H.}
@fyi{News Need Not Be Slow}
Proceedings of the 1987 Winter USENIX Conference,
USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA, January 1988, 181--90.

@c @noindent
@b{Comer, Douglas} (1983)
@fyi{The Computer Science Research Network CSNET: A history and status report}
Communicaitons of the ACM (26)10, 747--753.


@c --------
@c @item @b{D}
@c @noindent
@b{DeLoughry, Thomas J.} (1993)
@fyi{Regional Networks Prepare for Change in the Internet:
New company seeks to provide continuity for college customers}
Chronicle of Higher Education, June 9, 1993, A16.

@c @noindent
@b{Denning, Dorothy E.} (1993)
@fyi{To tap or not to tap}
Communications of the ACM, 36(3), 25-33.
(Pages 34--44 feature pesonal statements concerning the contents of this
article from the creme de la creme in computer privacy discussion.)

@c @noindent
@b{Denning, P.} (1989)
@fyi{The ARPANET after twenty years}
American Scientist 77:530.

@c @noindent
@b{Denning, P.}
@fyi{The Internet Worm}
American Scientist, March--April 1989, 126--128.

@c @noindent
@b{Denning, P.}
@fyi{The Science of Computing: Computer Networks}
American Scientist, March--April 1985, 127--129.

@c @noindent
@b{Dern, D.P.}
@fyi{Plugging Into the Internet}
BYTE, October 1992, 140--156.

@c @noindent
@b{Duncanson, J. @r{and} Chew, J.}
@fyi{The Ultimate Link? ISDN -- a new communications technology that
could change the way we use our computers and telephones}
BYTE, July 1988, 278--286.


@c --------
@c @item @b{E}
@c @noindent
@b{Emerson, Sandra L.} (1983)
@fyi{Usenet: A Bulletin Board for Unix Users}
BYTE, 8(10), 219-220.

@c @noindent
@b{Erickson, C.}
@fyi{USENET as a Teaching Tool}
Proceedings of the 24th ACM Conference on Science and Education,
ACM-24thCSE-2/93-IN, USA, February 1993, 43--47.


@c --------
@c @item @b{F}
@c @noindent
@b{Farrow, Rik} (1991a)
@fyi{Commercial Links to the Internet}
UNIX World, 82.

@c @noindent
@b{Farrow, Rik} (1991b)
@fyi{How the Internet Grew}
UNIX World, 80.

@c @noindent
@b{Farrow, Rik} (1991c)
@fyi{Who Pays for All This Great Stuff?}
UNIX World, 84.

@c @noindent
@b{Farrow, Rik} (1991d)
@fyi{Will Success Spoil the Internet?}
UNIX World, 79--86.

@c @noindent
@b{Fair, E.}
@fyi{Usenet: Spanning the Globe}
UNIX World, 1(7), 46--49.

@c @noindent
@b{Fiedler, David}
@fyi{PROWLING THE NETWORKS: Getting on the Usenet network, and what to do
when you've gotten there}
BYTE, 15(5), 83.

@c @noindent
@b{Frey, D., @r{and} Adams, R.}
@fyi{USENET: Death by Success?}
UNIX Review, August 1987, 55--60.


@c --------
@c @item @b{G}
@c @noindent
@b{Gifford, W.S.}
@fyi{ISDN User-Network Interfaces}
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, May 1986,
343--348.

@c @noindent
@b{Ginsberg, K.}
@fyi{Getting from Here to There}
UNIX Review, January 1986, 45.

@c @noindent
@b{Godwin, Mike} (1991)
@fyi{The Electronic Frontier Foundation and virtual communities}
Whole Earth Review, Summer, 1991, 40.

@c @noindent
@b{Godwin, Mike} (1993)
@fyi{New Frontiers: a visitor's guide -- Computers are creating new-style
communities that could be commonplace by 2001}
Index on Censorship 22(2), 11--13.


@c --------
@c @item @b{H}
@c @noindent
@b{Hardy, Henry E.} (1992b)
@fyi{The Usenet System}
International Teleconferencing Association (ITCA) Yearbook 1993, 140--151.

@c @noindent
@b{Heim, Judy} (1991)
@fyi{The information edge}
PC World, 9(4), 213.

@c @noindent
@b{Hiltz, S.R}
@fyi{The Human Element in Computerized Conferencing Systems}
Computer Networks, December 1978, 421--428

@c @noindent
@b{Hiramatsu, T.}
@fyi{Protecting Telecommunications Privacy in Japan}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 74-77.

@c @noindent
@b{Hold, David F., Sloan, Michael B., et. al.} (1991)
@fyi{First Amendment rights for electronic media}
Viewtext, 12(6), 3.

@c @noindent
@b{Horton, M.}
@fyi{What is a Domain?}
Proceedings of the Summer 1984 USENIX Conference,
USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA, June 1984,
368--372.

@c @noindent
@b{Horvitz, Robert} (1989)
@fyi{The Usenet underground}
Whole Earth Review, n. 4, 112.


@c --------
@c @item @b{I}
@c @noindent
@b{Ishida, H. & Landweber, L.H.}
@fyi{Internetworking Introduction}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 28--30.


@c --------
@c @item @b{J}
@c @noindent
@b{Jacobsen, Ole J.}
@fyi{Information on TCP/IP}
ConneXions---The Interoperability Report, July 1988,
14--15.

@c @noindent
@b{Jennings, D., et al.}
@fyi{Computer Networking for Scientists}
Science, 28 February 1986,
943--950.


@c --------
@c @item @b{K}
@c @noindent
@b{Karracker, Roger} (1991)
@fyi{Highways of the Mind}
Whole Earth Review, Spring, 1991, 8.

@c @noindent
@b{Kent, S.T.}
@fyi{Internet Privacy Enhanced Mail}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 48--60.


@c --------
@c @item @b{L}
@c @noindent
@b{Laulicht, Murray J. & Lindsay, Eileen L.} (1991)
@fyi{First Amendment Protections don't extend to genocide}
New Jersey Law Journal, 129(5), 15.

@c @noindent
@b{Law Reform Commission of Australia} (1991)
@fyi{Censorship Procedure}
Sydney: Law Reform Commission of Australia

@c @noindent
@b{Leslie, Jaques} (1993)
@fyi{Technology: MUDroom}
Atlantic 272(3), 28--34.

@c @noindent
@b{Levy, Steven}
@fyi{Crypto Rebels: the battle is engaged. Its the
FBI's, NSA's and Equifaxes of the world versus a swelling
movement of cypherpunks, civil libertarians and millionaire
hackers. At stake: whether privacy will exist in the 21st
century}
Wired 1.2, 54--61.

@c @noindent
@b{Licklider, J. C. R. & Vezza, Albert} (1978)
@fyi{Applications of Information Technology}
Proceedings of the IEEE 66(11), 1330--1346.

@c @noindent
@b{Livingston, James W.} (1988a)
@fyi{Y'know I heard it through the Usenet}
Digital Review, 5(14), 79.

@c @noindent
@b{Livingston, James W.} (1988b)
@fyi{No shortage of topics on the Usenet}
Digital Review, 5(16), 73.

@c @noindent
@b{Livingston, James W.} (1988c) @fyi{Take Your Pick with Netnews
@emph{Readers}}
Digital Review. 5(15), 97.

@c @noindent
@b{Lunin, Louis F.} (1991)
@fyi{Wanted, civil liberties for the network:
forum at ASIS explores roles and responsibilities of nets in public interest}
Information Today, 8(1), 12.


@c --------
@c @item @b{M}
@c @noindent
@b{Madsen, Wayne} (1992)
@fyi{THE CHANGING THREAT -- Information security and intelligence}
Computer Fraud & Security Bulletin, February.

@c @noindent
@b{Markoff, J.}
@fyi{Author of computer `virus' is son of U.S. electronic security expert.}
New York Times, Nov. 5, 1988, A1.

@c @noindent
@b{Markoff, J.}
@fyi{Computer snarl: A `back door' ajar.}
New York Times, Nov. 7, 1988, B10.

@c @noindent
@b{Markoff, John and Shapiro, Ezra} (1984)
@fyi{Fidonet, Sidekick, Apple, Get Organized!, and Handle:
Homebrew electronic mail, some integrated software, and other tidbits}
BYTE, 9(11), 357.

@c @noindent
@b{McQuillan, J.M., @r{and} Walden, D.C.} (1977)
@fyi{The ARPA Network Design Decisions}
Computer Networks, 243--289.

@c @noindent
@b{Metcalfe, Bob} (1993)
@fyi{On the wild side of computer networking}
InfoWorld 15(13), 54.

@c @noindent
@b{Miller, Philip H.} (1993)
@fyi{New technology, old problem: determining the First Amendment
status of electronic information services}
Fordham Law Review 61(5), 1147--1201.

@c @noindent
@b{Monge, Peter R.} (1977)
@fyi{The Systems Perspective as a Theoretical Basis for the Study of
Human Communication}
Communication Quarterly, Winter, 19--29.

@c @noindent
@b{Mueller, Milton} (1993)
@fyi{Universal service in telephone history: A reconstruction}
Telecommunications Policy, July, 352--369.

@c @noindent
@b{Murray, J.}
@fyi{K12 Network: Global Education through Telecommunications}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 36--41.


@c --------
@c @item @b{N}
@c @noindent
@b{Nance, Barry} (1992)
@fyi{On-the-fly disk compression: managing your Apple menu:
navigating through Usenet News}
BYTE, 17(6), 357.

@c @noindent
@b{Nickerson, Gord} (1992a)
@fyi{Effective use of Usenet}
Computers in Libraries, 12(5), 38.

@c @noindent
@b{Nickerson, Gord} (1992b)
@fyi{Free Software on Usenet}
Computers in Libraries, 12(6), 51.

@c @noindent
@b{Nickerson, Gord} (1992c)
@fyi{Networked Resources: Usenet}
Computers in Libraries. 12(4), 31--34.

@c --------
@c @item @b{O}
@c @noindent
@b{Ornstein, S.M.} (1989)
@fyi{A letter concerning the Internet worm}
Communications of the ACM @r{32:6}, June.


@c --------
@c @item @b{P}
@c @noindent
@b{Pacanowsky, Michael E. & O'Donnell-Trujillo, Nick} (1982)
@fyi{Communication and Organizational Cultures}
The Western Journal of Speech Communication, v. 46, 115--130.

@c @noindent
@b{Padovano, Michael} (1990)
@fyi{Need help with your Unix system? Here's a whole network of it}
Systems Integration. 23(12), 17.

@c @noindent
@b{Partridge, C.} (1986)
@fyi{Mail Routing Using Domain Names: An Informal Tour}
Proceedings of the 1986 Summer USENIX Conference
USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA, June.
366--76.

@c @noindent
@b{Perlman, G.} (1985)
@fyi{Usenet: Doing Research on the Network}
UNIX World, 2(11), 75--78.


@c --------
@c @item @b{Q}
@c @noindent
@b{Quarterman, J.}
@fyi{Etiquette and Ethics}
ConneXions---The Interoperability Report, March 1989,
12--16.

@c @noindent
@b{Quarterman, J.}
@fyi{Notable Computer Networks}
Communications of the ACM @r{29:10}, October 1986.
(This was the predecessor to @fyi{The Matrix}.)


@c --------
@c @item @b{R}
@c @noindent
@b{Raeder, A.W., @r{and} Andrews, K.L.}
@fyi{Searching Library Catalogs on the Internet: A Survey}
Database Searcher 6, September 1990, 16--31.

@c @noindent
@b{Reid, B. K.} (1989)
@fyi{The Usenet cookbook---an experiment in electronic [publishing]}
Electronic Publishing Review, 1(1), 55--76.

@c @noindent
@b{Reisler, Kurt} (1990)
@fyi{Usenet: a loosely organized, but binding network}
Digital Review, 7(6), 28.

@c @noindent
@b{Richard, Jack} (1993)
@fyi{Home-grown BBS}
Wired 1.4, 120.

@c @noindent
@b{Rotenberg, M.}
@fyi{Communications Privacy: Implications for Network Design}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 61--68.


@c --------
@c @item @b{S}
@c @noindent
@b{Sadowsky, W.}
@fyi{Network Connectivity for Developing Countries}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 42--47.

@c @noindent
@b{Schatz, Willie} (1993)
@fyi{DARPA's Industrial Policy Overkill}
Upside 5(5), 35--48.

@c @noindent
@b{Schultz, B.}
@fyi{The Evolution of ARPANET}
DATAMATION, August 1, 1988, 71--74.

@c @noindent
@b{Seeley, D.}
@fyi{A tour of the worm}
Proceedings of the 1989 Winter USENIX Conference,
USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA, February 1989,
287--304.

@c @noindent
@b{Shelly, Dale} (1986)
@fyi{Globally speaking}
Digital Review. 3(9), 150.

@c @noindent
@b{Shulman, G.}
@fyi{Legal Research on USENET Liability Issues}
;login: The USENIX Association Newsletter, December 1984,
11--17.

@c @noindent
@b{Smith, Norris Parker} (1993)
@fyi{Jockeying for Position on the Data Highway}
Upside 5(5), 50--60.

@c @noindent
@b{Smith, K.}
@fyi{E-Mail to Anywhere}
PC World, March 1988, 220--223.

@c @noindent
@b{Sproull, Lee & Kiesler, Sara} (1991)
@fyi{Computers, networks and work}
Scientific American, 265(3), 116.

@c @noindent
@b{Smith, Ben} (1992)
@fyi{UNIX: Navigating Through Usenet News}
BYTE, 17(6), 357.

@c @noindent
@b{Smith, Ben} (1989)
@fyi{The Unix Connection: Usenet, UUCP, and NetNews give Unix worldwide
communications power}
BYTE 14(5), 245.

@c @noindent
@b{Stoll, C.}
@fyi{Stalking the Wily Hacker}
Communications of the ACM @r{31:5}, May 1988, 14.
(This article grew into the book @fyi{The Cuckoo's Egg}.)


@c --------
@c @item @b{T}
@c @noindent
@b{Taylor, D.}
@fyi{The Postman Always Rings Twice:
Electronic Mail in a Highly Distributed Environment}
Proceedings of the 1988 Winter USENIX Conference,
USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA,
December 1988,
145--153.
	
@c @noindent
@b{Tillman, Hope N. & Ladner, Sharyn J.} (1992)
@fyi{Special librarians and the INTERNET}
Special Libraries, 83(2), 127.

@c @noindent
@b{Tribe, Lawrence H.} (1991)
@fyi{The Constitution in Cyberspace}
Keynote address at the first conference on Computers, Freedom,
and Privacy. Woodside, CA: Computer Professionals for Social
Responsibility.

@c @noindent
@b{Tuerkheimer, F.M.}
@fyi{The Underpinnings of Privacy Protection}
Communications of the ACM @r{36:8}, August 1993, 69--73.


@c --------
@c @item @b{U}
@c @noindent
@b{Ubois, Jeff} (1992)
@fyi{TECH ANALYSIS: What is acceptable Internet use?}
MacWeek, 30.

@c @noindent
@b{U.S. Gen'l Accounting Ofc.}
@fyi{Computer Security:
Virus Highlights Need for Improved Internet Management}
GAO/IMTEC-89-57, 1989.
(Addresses the Internet worm.)


@c --------
@c @item @b{W}
@c @noindent
@b{Wagner, Mitch} (1991)
@fyi{PSI's Policy Change Irks Usenet Readers}
UNIX Today, 5.

@c @noindent
@b{Wagner, Mitch} (1991)
@fyi{Update For Usenet}
UNIX Today, 22.

@c @noindent
@b{Wagner, Mitch} (1991)
@fyi{Usenet: Information At Users' Fingertips}
UNIX Today, 12.

@c @noindent
@b{Weinstein, Sydney S.} (1991)
@fyi{comp.sources.reviewed}
C Users Journal 9(6), 127.

@c @noindent
@b{Weinstein, Sydney S.} (1992)
@fyi{Where to get the sources}
C Users Journal. 10(2), 115.
@c @end table


@c --------
@node News bits
@section Cyberspace-related News bits

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Computers and Privacy: the eye of the beholder;
through new laws on privacy, piracy and censorship; governments
are writing a rulebook for the computer age}
Economist 319, 21--23, London.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1993)
@fyi{Excerpts from Senate Hearings on Ginzburg Supreme Court Nomination}
New York Times, July 23, A 16.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{The fruitful, tangled trees of knowledge}
The Economist, 323, 85.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1993)
@fyi{Interactive: What it means to you}
Newsweek, 121(22), 38--51.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1991)
@fyi{National research network driven by differing
goals and visions; OTA concerns outlined; private control
questioned; ANS advocates open policy}
Communications Daily, 11(108), 2.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1992)
@fyi{Secret Service undercover hacker investigation goes awry}
Communications Daily 12(218), 2.

@c @noindent
@b{Anonymous} (1993)
@fyi{NTIA warned of regulating 'hate' speech}
Communications Daily, 13(84), 3.

@c @noindent
@b{Blankenhorn, Dana} (1990)
@fyi{Dalai Lama starts his own online network}
Newsbytes, January 11.

@c @noindent
@b{Buckler, Grant} (1990)
@fyi{Canada Remote expanding mail networks}
Newsbytes.

@c @noindent
@b{Buckler, Grant} (1992)
@fyi{Canada Remote announces UNIX-based services}
Newsbytes, January 14.

@c @noindent
@b{Bulkeley, William M.} (1993)
@fyi{Censorship fights heat up on academic networks}
Wall Street Journal, B1.

@c @noindent
@b{Gold, Steve} (1990)
@fyi{CIX increases online charges; intros Usenet mail}
Newsbytes, January 4.

@c @noindent
@b{Gold, Steve} (1991)
@fyi{UK: Direct Connection offers Usenet news service}
Newsbytes, March 25.

@c @noindent
@b{Huston, John} (1993)
@fyi{Virtual Journalism}
Detroit Metro Times, 13(38), 24--28.

@c @noindent
@b{McCormick, John} (1990)
@fyi{Stoned virus source code published}
Newsbytes, Sept. 7.

@c @noindent
@b{McMullen, Barbara E. & McMullen, John F.} (1990a)
@fyi{Electronic frontiersmen launch online newsletter}
Newsbytes, Dec. 12.

@c @noindent
@b{McMullen, Barbara E. & McMullen, John F.} (1990b)
@fyi{Review: the User's Directory of Computer Networks,
a book edited by Tracy L. LaQuey}
Newsbytes, August 8, 20.

@c @noindent
@b{McMullen, Barbara E. & McMullen, John F.} (1992)
@fyi{EFF examining arrest of 5 hackers}
Newsbytes, July 15.

@c @noindent
@b{McMullen, Barbara E. & McMullen, John F.} (1993)
@fyi{EFF's Godwin -- Don't self-censor}
Newsbytes, April 26, 1993.

@c @noindent
@b{McMullen, Barbara E. & McMullen, John F.} (1991)
@fyi{Well suspends international connect charge}
Newsbytes, January 9.

@c @noindent
@b{Powers, Rebecca} (1993)
@fyi{Gizmo gadgets: New generation of technology}
Detroit News, July 19, 1E, 2E.

@c @noindent
@b{Rohrbaugh, Linda} (1992)
@fyi{New T4 Mac viruses spread on Internet via Gomoku game}
Newsbytes, July 8.

@c @noindent
@b{Siverstein, Stewart} (1990)
@fyi{Getting the message by computer.
Home users attracted to electronic mail and other networks}
Los Angeles Times, v. 109, Oct. 12, A1.

@c @noindent
@b{Templeton, Brad} (1992)
@fyi{CFP-2:  computer crime session focuses on FBI wiretap bill}
Newsbytes, March 25.

@c @noindent
@b{Woods, Wendy} (1990)
@fyi{Update -- new electronic newspaper available for Unix community}
Newsbytes, May 8.


@c --------
@node E-text
@section Electronically published Texts
@c @noindent
@b{Botz, Jurgen} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Commercialization of the Nets?}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{news.misc}, @news{alt.activism}.

@c @noindent
@b{December, John} (1992)
@fyi{Information Sources: the Internet and Computer-Mediated Communication}
WAIS database query: @email{wais@@quake.think.com}.

@c @noindent
@b{Desbiens, Jean Yves} (1992)
@fyi{Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroup: @news{alt.folklore.computers}, Nov. 28.

@c @noindent
@b{Detweiler, L.} (1993)
@fyi{Identity, Privacy, and Anonymity on the Internet}
Usenet newsgroup @news{alt.answers}, May 7 1993.

@c @noindent
@b{Farley, Laine} (ed) (1992)
@fyi{Library Resources on the Internet: Strategies for Selection and Use}
Database query to @email{wais@@quake.think.com}.

@c @noindent
@b{Foulston, Catherine Anne} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Commercialization of the Nets?}
Usenet Newsgroups @news{news.misc}, @news{alt.activism}, Oct. 6.

@c @noindent
@b{Frost, Jim} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroup: @news{alt. folklore.computers}, December 1.

@c @noindent
@b{Hardy, Henry E.} (1993)
@fyi{National Information Systems and the US Bill of Rights}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{umcc.umich.edu}, @file{/pub/seraphim/doc/nisbor17.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{Hardy, Henry E}. (1992a)
@fyi{The Future of Text-Oriented Virtual Reality}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{umcc.umich.edu}, @file{/pub/seraphim/doc/FutTVR2.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{Hauben, Jay Robert} (1992)
@fyi{Commercialization of the Nets?}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{news.misc}, @news{alt.activism}, October 6.

@c @noindent
@b{Hauben, Michael} (1992a)
@fyi{The Social Forces Behind the Development of `the Largest Machine that
man has ever constructed -- the global telecommunications network'
(or Usenet News)}
Usenet Newsgroup: @news{alt.amateur-comp}.

@c @noindent
@b{Hauben, Michael} (1992b)
@fyi{The Social Forces Behind the Development of Usenet News}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{comp.misc}, @news{news.misc}, etc, December 9.

@c @noindent
@b{Hauben, Ronda} (1993)
@fyi{The Town Meeting of the World: Usenet News, uucp, and the Internet}
Dearborn, MI: @host{wuarchive.wustl.edu}, @file{/doc/misc/acn}.

@c @noindent
@b{Kadie, Carl M.} (1992)
@fyi{File 4--Hacker Crackdown Review}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{alt.comp.acad-freedom.talk}, @news{comp.org.eff.talk},
December 1.

@c @noindent
@b{Kadie, Carl M., et al.} (ed) (ND)
@fyi{Computers and Academic Freedom News abstracts}
Database query response via @email{wais@@quake.think.com}.

@c @noindent
@b{Krol, Ed} (1988)
@fyi{The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Internet}
RFC-1118.

@c @noindent
@b{Lewis, Chris} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{alt. folklore.computers}, @news{news.admin.misc},
December 4.

@c @noindent
@b{Mehl, Nathan J.} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroup: @news{alt.folklore.computers}, Dec. 4.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993b)
@fyi{History.hosts}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/nsfnet/statistics/ history.hosts}, June 1993.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993b)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report January 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-01.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993c)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report February 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-02.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993d)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report March 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-03.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993e)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report April 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-04.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993f)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report May 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-05.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{MERIT Inc} (1993g)
@fyi{Internet Monthly Report June 1993}
Anonymous FTP -- @host{nic.merit.edu}
@file{/internet/newsletters/internet.monthly.report/imr93-06.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{Presno, Odd de} (1993)
@fyi{The Online World}
Saltrod, Norway: On-line book -- anonymous FTP from @host{ftp.eunet.no}
@file{/pub/text/online.txt}.

@c @noindent
@b{Sterling, Bruce} (1992)
@fyi{Free as Air, Free as Water, Free as Knowledge}
Speech to the Library Information Technology
Association, June 1992. San Francisco, CA.

@c @noindent
@b{Sterling, Bruce} (1992, 1993)
@fyi{Agitprop disk: Literary Freeware -- Not for Commercial Use}
Contains various SF magazine columns, texts of speeches, etc.
Available via anonymous FTP from @host{ftp.eff.org} in
directory @file{/pub/agitprop}. Or use Gopher at @host{gopher.well.sf.ca.us},
and see under @file{Bruce Sterling/}.

@c @noindent
@b{Sterling, Bruce & Gibson, William} (1993)
@fyi{Literary Freeware -- Not for Commercial Use}
Speeches to National Academy of Sciences
Convocation on Technology and Education, May 10, 1993,
Washington, D.C.: Computer Underground Digest #5.54.

@c @noindent
@b{Tomblin, Paul} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroup: @news{alt.folklore.computers}, Dec. 4.

@c @noindent
@b{Woodbury, G. Wolfe} (1992)
@fyi{Re: Famous flame wars, examples please?}
Usenet Newsgroups: @news{alt.folklore.computers},
@news{alt.culture.usenet}, @news{news.admin.misc}, Nov. 30.


@c --------
@node FYI Addresses
@unnumberedsec FYI:
@menu
* Snail mail::		Surface mail addresses.
* E-mail::		Electronic mail addresses of mailing lists.
* Others::		FTP, Gopher, etc.
@end menu

The following lists a selection of addresses you might find helpful,
when you want to hook into cyberspace.

@c --------
@node Snail mail
@subsection Snail Mail Addresses
@c @noindent
@b{Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link  (WELL)},
27 Gate Five Rd,
Sausalito CA 94966,
$15/mo; $2/hr,
(415) 332-4335.

@c @noindent
@b{WHOLE EARTH REVIEW},
P.O. Box 38,
Sausalito, CA 94966-9932,
$20/yr; four issues.

@c @noindent
@b{MONDO 2000} (Cyberpunk Magazine),
P.O. Box 10171,
Berkeley, CA 94709-5171,
$24 five issues more or less quarterly.

@c @noindent
@b{bOING bOING} (World's Greatest Neurozine),
11288 Ventura Blvd #818,
Studio City CA 91604,
$14/ 4 issues kind of quarterly.

@c @noindent
@b{SCIENCE FICTION EYE},
P.O. Box 18539,
Asheville, NC  28814,
$10 three issues;  two a year, more or less.

@c @noindent
@b{THE MAGAZINE OF FANTASY AND SCIENCE FICTION},
P.O. Box 56,
Cornwall, CT  06753,
$26 twelve issues a year.


@c --------
@node E-mail
@subsection E-Mail and List server Addresses
@c @noindent
@b{Computers and Academic Freedom}:
To subscribe send @samp{add comp-academic-freedom-news} to
@email{listserv@@eff.org}.

@c @noindent
@b{Computer Underground Digest}:
@email{tk0jut2@@niu.bitnet}

@c @noindent
@b{Phrack}:
@email{phracksub@@stormking.com}

@c @noindent
@b{RISKS Digest}:
@email{risks-request@@csl.sri.com}


@c --------
@node Others
@subsection FTP'able & Gopher'able Addresses
@c @noindent
@host{ftp.eff.org}
In directory @file{/pub/agitprop} you'll find the contents of
a disk containing ``Literacy Freeware'' by Bruce Sterling.

In directory @file{/pub/cud} you'll find the ``Computer underground Digest''
archives.

@c @noindent
@host{gopher.well.sf.ca.us}
Gopher this site and browse through the index. It's full of
e-text publications.

@host{tic.com}
In directory @file{Bruce Sterling's agitprop/} you'll find the contents of
the ``Literacy Freeware'' disk by Bruce Sterling.


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``And all else is literature.''}
--- @b{Paul Verlaine}, The Sun, New York
While he was city editor in 1873--1890.
@end flushright
