@setfilename eff.info
@c @center Version 1, July 1994

@display
@center Copyright @copyright{} 1994 The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@center 1001 G Street NW, Suite 950 E, Washington DC 20001 USA

@center Voice: +1 202 347 5400, Fax: +1 202 393 5509, BBS: +1 202 638 6120
@center FidoNet: 1:109/1108, Internet: ask@@eff.org
@center Internet fax gate: remote-printer.EFF@@9.0.5.5.3.9.3.2.0.2.1.tpc.int

@end display
@*

@unnumberedsec Distribution Policy
@noindent
This guide is available free of charge from the EFF online archives at
@host{ftp.eff.org}, @host{gopher.eff.org},
@host{http://www.eff.org}, EFF BBS (+1 202 638 6120),
AOL keyword EFF, CIS EFFSIG forum, and elsewhere.

This guide may be freely reproduced & distributed electronically or in
hardcopy, provided the following conditions are met:

@enumerate
@item
Please do not qualitatively modify the guide, and leave all copyright,
distribution, attribution, and EFF information intact.  Permission expressly
granted for translation to other languages and conversion to other formats.

@item
EFF has signed a contract with MIT Press to publish a hardcopy book
version of the guide, entitled @emph{Everybody's Guide to the Internet}.
All other for-profit distribution of printed versions of the guide
is forbidden.  However, you may print out copies and recoup the cost of
printing and distribution by charging a nominal fee.

@item
Any for-profit non-paper distribution (such as shareware vendor
diskettes, CD-ROM collections, etc.) must be approved by the Electronic
Frontier Foundation (the time- and usage-based access fees of online services,
bulletin boards, and network access providers are specifically exempted).
Donations appreciated.

@item
You may not charge a for-profit fee specifically for this guide, only for
a collection containing the guide, with the exeception of a nominal copying
charge (online usage fees exempted, as above).
@end enumerate

These conditions hold for any derived version of this guide.
