@c
@c  EFF's Guide to the Internet by Adam Gaffin
@c
@c    ASCII: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by The Electronic Frontier Foundation
@c  Texinfo: Copyright (c) 1993, 1994 by Joerg Heitkoetter
@c
@c     $Id: smileys.texi,v 2.3 1994/08/14 13:25:09 joke Rel $
@c

@c --------
@c Up Node is The Unofficial Smiley Dictionary

@c --------
@menu
* Basic Smileys::
* Widely used Smileys::
* Midget Smileys::
* Mega Smileys::
* Usenet Smileys::
* Emotional Smileys::
@end menu

This @fyi{Unofficial Smiley Dictionary} is only one of many different
collections by various ``editors'' you'll come across at many places on
the Net, e.g. you can get ``The-Smiley-File'' from @host{gopher.world.std.com};
and even a complete booklet has been written on smileys and is available as:
@cindex Smiley

@quotation
@b{David W. Sanderson} (ed.), @fyi{Smileys}, O'Reilly & Associates,
Sebastopol, CA. 93 pages. ISBN 1-56592-041-4. Price $5.95 (US).
@end quotation

@c --------
@node Basic Smileys
@section Basic Smileys

@explain{@code{:-)}}
Your basic smiley. This smiley is used to inflect a sarcastic or
joking statement since we can't hear voice inflection over e-mail.

@explain{@code{;-)}}
Winky smiley. User just made a flirtatious and/or sarcastic remark.
More of a ``don't hit me for what I just said'' smiley.

@explain{@code{:-(}}
Frowning smiley. User did not like that last statement or is upset
or depressed about something.

@explain{@code{:-I}}
Indifferent smiley. Better than a @code{:-(} but not quite as
good as a @code{:-)}.

@explain{@code{:->}}
User just made a really biting sarcastic remark. Worse than a @code{;-)}.

@explain{@code{>:->}}
User just made a really devilish remark.

@explain{@code{>;->}}
Winky and devil combined. A very lewd remark was just made.


@c --------
@node Widely used Smileys
@section Widely used Smileys

@explain{@code{(-:}}
User is left handed.

@explain{@code{%-)}}
User has been staring at a green screen for 15 hours straight.

@explain{@code{:*)}}
User is drunk.

@explain{@code{[:]}}
User is a robot.

@explain{@code{8-)}}
User is wearing sunglasses.

@explain{@code{B:-)}}
Sunglasses on head.

@explain{@code{::-)}}
User wears normal glasses.

@explain{@code{B-)}}
User wears horn-rimmed glasses.

@explain{@code{8:-)}}
User is a little girl.

@explain{@code{:-)-8}}
User is a Big girl.

@explain{@code{:-@{)}}
User has a mustache.

@explain{@code{:-@{@}}}
User wears lipstick.

@explain{@code{@{:-)}}
User wears a toupee.

@explain{@code{@}:-(}}
Toupee in an updraft.

@explain{@code{:-[}}
User is a vampire.

@explain{@code{:-E}}
Bucktoothed vampire.

@explain{@code{:-F}}
Bucktoothed vampire with one tooth missing.

@explain{@code{:-7}}
User juust made a wry statement.

@explain{@code{:-*}}
User just ate something sour.

@explain{@code{:-)~}}
User drools.

@explain{@code{:-~)}}
User has a cold.

@explain{@code{:'-(}}
User is crying.

@explain{@code{:'-)}}
User is so happy, s/he is crying.

@explain{@code{:-@@}}
User is screaming.

@explain{@code{:-#}}
User wears braces.

@explain{@code{:^)}}
User has a broken nose.

@explain{@code{:v)}}
User has a broken nose, but it's the other way.

@explain{@code{:_)}}
User's nose is sliding off of his face.

@explain{@code{:<)}}
User is from an Ivy League School.

@explain{@code{:-&}}
User is tongue tied.

@explain{@code{=:-)}}
User is a hosehead.

@explain{@code{-:-)}}
User is a punk rocker.

@explain{@code{-:-(}}
Real punk rockers don't smile.

@explain{@code{:=)}}
User has two noses.

@explain{@code{+-:-)}}
User is the Pope or holds some other religious office.

@explain{@code{`:-)}}
User shaved one of his eyebrows off this morning.

@explain{@code{,:-)}}
Same thing...other side.

@explain{@code{|-I}}
User is asleep.

@explain{@code{|-O}}
User is yawning/snoring.

@explain{@code{:-Q}}
User is a smoker.

@explain{@code{:-?}}
User smokes a pipe.

@explain{@code{O-)}}
Megaton Man On Patrol!  (or else, user is a scuba diver)

@explain{@code{O :-)}}
User is an angel (at heart, at least).

@explain{@code{:-`}}
User spitting out its chewing tobacco.

@explain{@code{:-S}}
User just made an incoherent statement.

@explain{@code{:-D}}
User is laughing (at you!)

@explain{@code{:-X}}
User's lips are sealed.

@explain{@code{:-C}}
User is really bummed.

@explain{@code{<|-)}}
User is Chinese.

@explain{@code{<|-(}}
User is Chinese and doesn't like these kind of jokes.

@explain{@code{:-/}}
User is skeptical.

@explain{@code{C=:-)}}
User is a chef.

@explain{@code{@@=}}
User is pro-nuclear war.

@explain{@code{*<:-)}}
User is wearing a Santa Claus Hat.

@explain{@code{:-o}}
Uh oh!

@explain{@code{(8-o}}
It's Mr. Bill!

@explain{@code{*:o)}}
And Bozo the Clown!

@explain{@code{3:]}}
Pet smiley.

@explain{@code{3:[}}
Mean Pet smiley.

@explain{@code{d8=}}
Your pet beaver is wearing goggles and a hard hat.

@explain{@code{E-:-)}}
User is a Ham radio operator.

@explain{@code{:-9}}
User is licking his/her lips.

@explain{@code{%-6}}
User is braindead.

@explain{@code{[:-)}}
User is wearing a walkman.

@explain{@code{(:I}}
User is an egghead.

@explain{@code{<:-I}}
User is a dunce.

@explain{@code{K:P}}
User is a little kid with a propeller beenie.

@explain{@code{@@:-)}}
User is wearing a turban.

@explain{@code{:-0}}
No Yelling!  (Quiet Lab)

@explain{@code{:-:}}
Mutant smiley; the invisible smiley.

@explain{@code{.-)}}
User only has one eye.

@explain{@code{,-)}}
Ditto...but he's winking.

@explain{@code{X-(}}
User just died.

@explain{@code{8 :-)}}
User is a wizard.

@explain{@code{-=* :-)}}
User is a TeX wizard.


@c --------
@node Midget Smileys
@section Midget Smileys

A lot of these can be typed without noses to make midget smileys.

@explain{@code{:)}}
Midget smiley.

@explain{@code{:]}}
Gleep...a friendly midget smiley who will gladly be your friend.

@explain{@code{=)}}
Variation on a theme...

@explain{@code{:@}}}
What should we call these? (what?)

@explain{@code{:)}}
Happy.

@explain{@code{:>}}
What?

@explain{@code{:@@}}
What?

@explain{@code{:D}}
Laughter.

@explain{@code{:I}}
Hmmm...

@explain{@code{:(}}
Sad.

@explain{@code{:[}}
Real Downer.

@explain{@code{:<}}
What?

@explain{@code{:@{}}
What?

@explain{@code{:O}}
Yelling.

@explain{@code{:C}}
What?

@explain{@code{:Q}}
What?

@explain{@code{:,(}}
Crying.

@explain{@code{[]}}
Hugs and ...

@explain{@code{:*}}
Kisses.

@explain{@code{|I}}
Asleep.

@explain{@code{^o}}
Snoring.


@c --------
@node Mega Smileys
@section Mega Smileys

@explain{@code{C=@}>;*@{))}}
A drunk, devilish chef with a toupee in an updraft, a mustache, and
a double chin.

@explain{@code{@}:^#@})}}
Updrafted bushy-mustached pointy nosed smiley with a double-chin.


@c --------
@node Usenet Smileys
@section Usenet Smileys

In some Usenet articles you might also find these smileys which form a certain
``dialect'' developed and used in this most creative environment.

@explain{@code{~~:-(}}
Net.flame

@explain{@code{O |-)}}
Net.religion

@explain{@code{8 :-I}}
Net.unix-wizards

@explain{@code{X-(}}
Net.suicide

@explain{@code{E-:-I}}
Net.ham-radio


@c --------
@node Emotional Smileys
@section Emotional Smileys

@explain{@code{:-)}}
ha ha

@explain{@code{|-)}}
hee hee

@explain{@code{|-D}}
ho ho

@explain{@code{:->}}
hey hey

@explain{@code{:-(}}
boo hoo

@explain{@code{:-I}}
hmmm

@explain{@code{:-O}}
oops

@explain{@code{:-P}}
nyahhhh!


@c --------
@iftex
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end iftex
@flushright
@emph{``The man who smiles when things go wrong has thought
of someone to blame it on.''}
--- @b{Jone's Law}

@emph{``Standing on head makes smile of frown,
but rest of face also upside down.''}
--- @b{Fortune cookie}
@end flushright
